
nct-ai-aiActionsInConsumerSoftware

AI agents and tools have not been integrated
into consumer software adequately and so
some additional concepts will be necessary.
The AI chat is usually the sole GUI gateway 
to AI today instead of AI being integrated 
inside existing, traditional software GUI conventions.
In other words, the AI chat is a specific interactive 
GUI setup but is not acknowledged as such.
Many GUI equivalents can be made for what
is typewritten in an AI chat.  If AI is to be
perceived as generally valuable, it should be
integrated into what people have been using
for decades.  What is wrong is an assumed
future obsolescence of everything because of 
AI rather than adapting AI to existing 
software conditions.  Any future conditions 
will need controls for interacting with AI and 
they are very likely going to be inherited
from present traditional software in some way.
The rapid construction of software by AI will not
obsolesce the need for or value of crafting it.


Examples of Integrating AI Into Existing GUI Controls

Data tables in software should, in many cases, be able 
to receive dropped documents of any 
data format, or take in any kind of pasted text, whether
jotted notes or a structured file conforming to a file format,
and the AI model will convert the data to populate the 
table.  A scanned image with tabular data would be OCR'ed first
by the AI model.  In this case, the AI is playing a helpful
role from inside traditional software instead of
being tacked on top of it.  Another example:
it's often easier to type a list of dates in a text file
and what will happen on them than it is
to enter them one at a time in a calendar grid,
so a calendar GUI grid would accept a dropped
text file and convert its contents.  It would
even be able to OCR a handwritten set of dates. 
A to-do list app could provide the same functionality for
text files or other documents containing to-dos.
The data on the computer does not have to originate
in the specific format of its destination but instead
can have AI acting as a bridge.  

These examples were just about data and no proactive analysis,
but in the case that the AI were configured in an
analysis mode, it might, for example, sit behind a Gantt
chart control and have a document dropped on it that has
no timeline information.  It would then analyze the document 
and populate the Gantt chart control.  It could ask
questions first after receiving it.


GUI Is Non-Verbal User Action Vs. The AI Chat's Typewritten Prompts

There is also the important issue that typing out
commands is not always desirable for interacting with a machine.
Drag and drop, double-click are all real-time, non-verbal 
conventions for interacting with a computer.  It implies
that GUI controls should become AI-capable; a drop region
will have an AI action that happens after the drop occurs.
After a slider is moved, it might trigger an AI action.

Typewritten sentences can certainly specify commands to 
the AI with completeness and clarity, but there are
some costs, namely that not all users are predisposed to work
this way, not all people want to be typing
commands to a computer as natural language sentences, and finally
natural language sentences take a lot of mental effort
to compose. Also, expecting the user to use strategies like 
abbreviated sentences is inadequate because it feels strange
and there is no convention for it.  

Before the GUI became available, the CLI commands provided 
brevity and syntax even though they were completely unforgiving.
The natural language prompts are almost totally forgiving
but they require too much verbosity for commands.  
Radio shorthand is preferred for radio.  The CLI command syntax
relates to that but with an unforgiving syntax and too many
flags and parameters to memorize.  GUI is real-time action
like the real world.  The computer can have a combination,
but AI cannot be without GUI actions and only result from
typewritten full sentences.


AI Actions

Before addressing these issues, the concept of a prompt and a tool
can be unified in a usable package called an AI action.
At the moment, in a chat the user types a prompt that
will activate a tool.

    - Currently, prompts are not bundled together 
    with tools and workflows.  The user is left to
    come up with prompts and type them out manually
    to activate tools.
    - AI actions bundle prompts that activate tools
    in specific ways.  They can carry a flow.
    - Instead of the user having to type out prompts to activate 
    specific tools in specific ways, these
    actions are dragged into an action
    script or the AI chat.  A given AI action 
    may require configuration before use.   
    - AI Action Script: A list of actions with their
    tools that can be lined up in a sequence,
    provided logic and control flows.
    - The benefit of an AI action or action
    script is that the conditional logic can be written
    in natural language and the AI's response
    will accommodate any situation.
    
Drop Regions: 

The AI acts on the dropped file or directory according 
to the configured action. A drop region may only have one
AI action or it may have accompanying controls
for configuring it.  Example drop region for directory
that makes use of AI: "organize directory tree."
That drop region can be configured as to whether it
renames files or inspects file contents to do something.
Another might be "optimize code in folder."
What this does is allow a bridge between
the traditional consumer software GUI conventions 
and AI functionality.

Drop regions also allow many options such
as subdiving the drop region on hover for
different functions.


    - In an agentic code editor, you drop components
    onto drop regions of a schematic, whether empty spaces
    or components of the diagram, and the code editor
    can ask you what you want to do such as 
    have you fill out a form. This is much faster than 
    typing out specifications in a chat.
    
A desktop computing environment can provide settings
for the user to display AI actions as contextual (right-click)
menu options.  

    
AI-Enabled Tables And Areas

    Data Conversions:

    - The user drops a .txt file
    onto a GUI table and since
    the GUI table was AI-enabled
    it can convert the contents
    to the table.
    
    - Dropping a .PPT file onto
    a web page editor will ask
    the user what to do with it
    and one option is to convert
    it to a web page native format.
    


Buttons

    In conventional software buttons
    are all defined, but in AI-enabled
    software the user may be able
    to add and configure buttons
    and drop regions with AI functionality.

