nct-ai-usingGenerativeAIBasedOnItsOfferings

For production of text, code, or other
media, the AI should foremost serve
as a bootstrap or cold start tool
that sets up the scaffolding that will 
be modified and added to by the user
during the project.

The AI accounts for and fills 
in many details and important considerations
that take a lot of time and effort 
to list off for one person.  It is here
where it can be used to do the job that
previously took one or more assistants
or co-workers.  If it is this aspect
that is emphasized, there won't be a loss
of participation for the user.  Neither 
will there be the issue of
the user making common looking products
that were single prompt generations from AI.
In other words, nothing has changed
and what you put in is what you get out,
it's just that the AI is doing a lot more
upfront.

For example, for app development, what are all of the 
features, settings, and menus needed for 
a given kind of app?  The AI can
list these off for the software developer, who 
then modifies that list, reorganizes it, and adds
to it.  This is the right way to use AI.
After that, the AI can right away place them into initial 
spots of a GUI temporarily.  Let's say it is
an app being made for AI video. 
There are many considerations
for videos, from lighting to camera
movement settings.  Based on the list the software
developer made, the AI fills in all of these
in a GUI and this does not take away from the
software developer but instead does the
work that wouldn't have even been feasible.
The level of abstraction has gone higher,
generally.

It is after this point that the real
work comes in for the app developer,
who has to customize the GUI and redesign
what was provided by the AI and manually
moves elements around and changes the
GUI.  This stage is when the person is using
generative AI for software development 
properly, as a tool, if discipline is
enforced.  The AI provided the base that would take too
much to bootstrap alone, but the software
developer didn't leave the output in its given
state.  He provided the AI different
digital resources and instructed how they
go together.

If the AI finds icons for the app, this
isn't a problem for an indie software developer,
as long as the indie software developer
is choosing or guiding the icons.


