
Let's say we wanted to make a software mechanism that plays
us in tic-tac-toe with yin and yang and the Five Elements.
This would be a foundation for us to grow it into other
games like connect four.  An empty tic-tac-toe square would
be registered internally as yin and and an occupied one
yang.

Yin (0): Represents the empty square.  It is the receptive,
potential state, waiting to be actualized. In binary logic,
this is 0. Yang (1): Represents the occupied square. It is
the active, manifest state. In binary logic, this is 1

Perhaps later an AI agent guides and refines the yin-yang
mechanism while the software developer plays tic-tac-toe and
connect four to make the mechanism more general for more
scenarios. Playing tic-tac-toe and connect four processed in
terms of balance and multiple dimensions of yin and yang,
with yang as action, yin as observing, yang as solid place,
yin as empty place-- that is the whole grid analyzed this
way.  Our mechanism would not be built specifically for
tic-tac-toe but for the general layout of it.

You could describe the dynamic between players as yin and
yang in multiple ways and our mechanism would do this for
the objective of

One player (X) might represent yang (active, initiating),
especially if they go first. The other player (O) might
represent yin (reactive, balancing), responding to the first
player's moves.

If I am the initiator (going first, placing X), I embody
yang (active, expansive). My opponent then becomes yin
(receptive, contracting), whose role is to balance my
aggression with defense. But we want this to arise naturally
from the mechanism, not defined in relation to tic-tac-toe.
If I am the responder (going second, placing O), I embody
yin, reacting to the board state. My opponent then becomes
yang, providing the initial structure and energy that I must
harmonize with.

The Five Elements might be used to asses the state of the
board and its balance, as well as the state of strategy,
with Water being the contemplative and internal.  What about
the others?  The opponent's move would be assessed as to
which element it falls into, allowing a general strategy to
be applied ,

The software can use the Generating (Sheng) and Overcoming
(Ke) cycles to determine the next move:

Assessing the Opponent: When the opponent places a mark, the
AI classifies it into one of the five elements but in
relation to the history of the opponent's moves, which is
kept track in internal memory as well as the type of move it
is as well as the state of the game in relation to the
player.

Defensive Response (Overcoming Cycle): If Opponent = Fire
(Aggressive), AI selects Water (Block/Flow). If Opponent =
Wood (Expanding), AI selects Metal (Cut/Prune). If Opponent
= Earth (Stabilizing), AI selects Wood (Break/Infiltrate).
If Opponent = Metal (Precision), AI selects Fire
(Disrupt/Overwhelm). If Opponent = Water (Adaptive), AI
selects Earth (Contain/Dam).

Offensive Response (Generating Cycle): If the AI wants to
build a long-term trap, it plays the element that "feeds"
its previous move (e.g., following a Wood setup with a Fire
explosion).

Our mechanism will have a built-in memory and set of states,
unlike the LLM.  (We will also allow it to enable/toggle states
and make new ones and track them.)

In our mechanism, which would begin as a grid analytical
capability also rooted in yin and yang and the Five Elements.
Both connect four and tic-tac-toe are grids with cells
and as long as the mechanism is configured to process
that grid correctly for a game, recording history, 
it can do others like checkers and eventually chess,
with the goal in the distance to be able to process
bitmaps and then motion pictures.  It might then at
the beginning have its foundation as 
three units: cell, sequence, matrix, with these being
multi-purpose concepts that apply eventually to have
a sequence of frames, a sequence of moves (history and thus
memory because it is recorded).  This is the data
structure side built in.  It would have to have action
side, external (yang) being actually moving pieces (yang) and
reading/watching the board (yin),  internal (yin) being
analysis (yin) and decision-making (yang) that is then
sent to external (yang).  Analysis can be divided into
the current state of things (yin) and then prediction (yang)
for oneself (one's own future) (yin) and the moves of the 
opponent (yang).  Decisions can be made into immediate
(yang) and long-term (yin) strategies, more than one
in a batch.

What we want in this AI mechanism is implied understanding,
usually not defined with rules specific to the situation
but rather it will at first be configured to play tic-tac-toe.

It would likely make use of decision trees.











