
The AI Chatbot Queries The User Before Proceeding.

THE PROBLEM: AI CHATBOTS DON'T REFLECT EXPERT/RECEPTIONIST
INTERACTIONS

When the user asks the AI chatbot a question to get a broad solution,
often the user won't realize or even know much of the information 
that the AI needs to collect, or typing it all out might be 
too much work up front.  He might say, "Help me
get a desktop PC for under $500" but not realize at the time
that there are different form factors like tower, mini, etc.
Or it could be that he realizes these things but it
is too laborious to recall and type out each one and it would be
better if the AI came up with these list items with defaults filled in.
Workarounds for this are provided below.

This is normal in real life, that there is
information the receptionist or expert has to gather
that the client didn't realize or know needed to be provided.
If the client doesn't provide it, the receptionist 
will have to fill in the blanks with results that might be a mismatch
or unsatisfactory to the user.  This is what is happening right
now with the AI chatbots and it is a reason their productivity
is mixed.

Like in real life, the AI needs the ability to gather
information once given a task but right now it will only reply with
its own assumptions embedded for any information missing that
it would have collected, which necessarily will produce the occasional or frequent 
unsatisfactory experience with the AI, especially
for project questions.  Some tasks just require the collection
of more information if the user doesn't provide a specifications
document.


WORKAROUNDS THE USER CAN INSERT TODAY:

- "Ask any questions before proceeding."
- "For this project, collect information from me with 
default answers selected or text filled in and
I will reply with changes." 
    - (In the future this will produce an 
    actual interactive form inside the AI chatbot chat session).
- "Ask clarifying questions."


TYPES OF QUESTIONS THE AI WILL BE ABLE TO ASK IN THE FUTURE

- pressing questions - question the AI truly needs to
answer or assist effectively.

    - A small menu appears quickly underneath the user's query and 
    it has up to 5 options with number keys corresponding to
    response. 
        - E.g. "Do you want a 1) laptop or 2) notebook computer?" 


- questionnaire form - a list of questions for
the AI to provide the user so that it can collect
information.  It can have defaults selected.
Can be multiple choice or text, etc.
Can have levels of specificity.
    - example is a technical
    specifications questionnaire before
    the AI generates code.
    
    
    
