ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES FOR FILES AND DIRECTORIES


Files and directories should have descriptions entries included with them to explain what they are, which will be displayed in the File Navigator.  This will allow browsing the drive and becoming familiar with what the system is about, such as what sbin, bin, usr, etc. all mean and what their contents are about.


Additionally, the File Navigator should have the option to assign classifications to files and the filesystem should already come shipped with taxonomy classifications for every file and directory.  This way, regardless of where the file is located, its purpose is displayed.


This also allows for an entry which is “related files” which will allow files to be associated with each other.  This can carry an option where related files and directories inside a directory can be “glued” which means that when they are moved they have to move together.


The “related files” entry and a unique identifier or marker for a group of files that are related to each other will allow for tracking and uninstallation of all files and directories installed by a package.  They all carry the same unique marker, which is initially placed on them by the installer.


Another property that can be added is one that changes the appearance of the directory or file on the filesystem, whether it is the highlight color of the directory or file or its font size relative to other files.


By adding properties, files and directories can have multiple names.


An important point is that organizing and navigating files on the file system by the two primary options of name or data type is not sufficient because 
1. A filename
2. A .PDF could be a book, a resume, or an invoice.


If all files that are resumes on the drive are given the tag label “Work > Resume” then they can be navigated this way instead.  If files are all given classification paths like  “Work > Resume”, “Media Projects > Video > Trailer” or “Media Projects > Websites > Online Store“ then the user can avoid browsing the computer’s disk by directory tree and instead by these paths that relate to use of the computer.  


Related to this, the File Navigator can have two separate navigation window types: the first is the conventional file browsing while the other navigates files and applications that have been organized according to this separate scheme, which might at first be for navigating personal and professional files and documents and not as much software development work, though this could change later.




For organizing the filesystem, a user might first tag all files that are part of a project or category of scrapbooking with a specific tag.  Then the user can make a so-called “smart” directory that either 1) moves all of the files with that tag inside it or 2) shows a maintained mirror list of these files.


We have also said that there should be grouping and subgroup operations available for the contents of any directory so that related files are located next to each other.  Grouping and subgrouping will allow a directory to have a custom presentation, such as tabviews for the different groups and subgroups.  It will allow making use of other GUI controls like accordion controls for different sections of a directory.  A directory’s presentation might be customizable.


A File Navigator system can list files in a directory by separating them into tabs (A-K, K-P, etc.).