nct-ai-generativeVideoFilmmaking

The production of images is a nonverbal process
and there is no precedent for a technology that
rapidly produces complex, detailed imagery through
text.  This is one topic, which is that the software
should become more parametricized and GUI related and move away
"text2video" and "text2image."  The more it resembles
something like 3D software where there is less prose
and more configuration, the better.

The AI taking care of many details is just a convenience 
which allows a single person or a few
to do the job that was expensive or unfeasible earlier.
There hasn't been a situation where a technology
takes care of details or considerations the person didn't
account for.  You want to take control of its output
wherever your involvement is relevant 
and will shape the product, such as paying close
attention to the production of reference images it 
will use, giving it specifics like
telling it the lighting. Take control of the lighting, 
color palette, etc.  The better the AI software,
the more it will allow customization and professionals
will of course try to customize a lot.

The generative AI video model is just a tool
in the following way.  It doesn't feel like it
is just a tool because of how much work it does for the user
from the outset, how it fills in all of the details
the user didn't mention or consider for the prompt.
Central to this is the translation of text to imagery
in which a thousand things are going to be filled
in by the AI if it is just a few sentences.  People
don't have any precedent for making images or moving with
text instructions to a technology and the more
parametricized this is and the more it moves away
from text in AI software, the better.  It isn't good
to write text prompts to make images or video,
but because the AI accomplishes so much so quickly 
people have not discussed this.
  
The AI is a tool because when you use it properly you are making 
a composition with it, with all of 
your own digital resources, mainly your images you bring in
or generate with AI.  Because it
has been trained on so many high-quality,
professionally shot or produced videos, 
it will produce striking output with 
professional camera movement,
lighting, etc. on basic prompts, and this is why it is
easy for lay people to produce high-quality looking
videos, even with unreal qualities, with little effort.  
But what is important is that this output 
was not composed by them, not without them guiding it, it 
and won't amount to having used the AI as a real tool for composition;
it would be about making single prompts,
and nothing made that way can truly compare to using
the AI for what it is for, which is a tool for the filmmaker's
own work. It is the same issue as using the computer for type and page layouts.
That is a professional job despite the computer software's
capabilities and still requires the user to treat the computer as a design
tool and know typography and page layout, in other words knowledge of the field.
The field for AI video generation is filmmaking,
and all of the previous requirements are still in play.

What is key is that each digital resource, a starting
image, may take multiple steps during
generation, including additions and lighting changes, 
before it is utilized.  The deceptive aspect of
the generative AI setup is that even for making 
images with AI, the first version is
felt to be adequate on first glance because is the AI generates so
much.  AI output shouldn't always
be left as it comes out and especially with images should be
worked on.  Generated images, too, are a result
of the model being trained on professionally made work. 
So, even the starting images that will
be generated by the user that will be 
part of the video will 
require composition process themselves
with AI and that step should also be treated the
same as before.  The rules have not changed.

Important in this is that advancements to AI
will occur, but like always media like movies 
produced with older technological
conditions are not necessarily obsolete.
It is better to go ahead and produce 
the film or other content at the
time you want to make it rather than concern
yourself about AI being advanced enough yet.
All media is dated in terms of appearance
for the time period it comes from, 
but the more that the basic rules of
the field were followed the less this impacts
the audience or user.




