nct-tech-general-ChangeOfTechnologicalMedium

When you have a new technological medium or context,
you want to use it for what it offers,
and adapt to the changes in interface
and capabilities that have occurred.  What
are the new technology's tendencies?  If it is 
VR or AI video generation, how will it
be used after the initial thrill has worn off?
What is its actual range?

When the AI model, for example, is always generating
surreal imagery, it has to be acknowledged
that the AI will do this and if surreality
is to be utilized in filmmaking it will have to be done
in a planned and deliberate way, with considerable effort
applied, because people everywhere are making surreal scenes
casually because the AI can do it right away.

The AI can generate any scene
	--> Extreme: STIMULATION (OVERWHELMING) Make wildly fantastic
	and impossible scenes all the time (already a problem
	with Hollywood movies).
	--> Extreme: REPRODUCE PREVIOUS CONDITIONS (BORING). 
	Make shows and scenes shot as they are
	with cameras and conventional shows and
	get the AI to make them exactly.

Simultaneously, there is no point in
using AI just for conventional filmmaking that
reproduces moviemaking as it is.  
A shift in form has occurred. Draws from physical practices.
The problem is that people sit on two
extremes. They either make mundane scenes
or go extremely fantastic with too much
happening, which overwhelms.  That was
already a problem with Hollywood after the 2000s
which is why the era of movies in the 1980s
and 1990s when the special effects were limited.
When many directors could do whatever they
wanted in effects, they would become unrestrained,
they would go over the top and the quality of
filmmaking degrades. That never produces classics.
Every special effect shot had to count
in the 1970s to the 1990s.  And when filmmakers
insisting on getting more than what the 
state of effects could offer, they would
get 3D scenes that look bad.


It's important not to use AI or any new technology 
that offers new avenues to produce output for conventional purposes, 
like how people made hiking apps and 
other mundane apps in VR.  A popular VR app at
one time involved cooking and doing office work--
things they could do in real life they
would reproduce in VR. Hiking or 
playing tennis in VR is a waste
of the technology.  The entire point
of the technology or the tool is it
enables other modes of interaction or experience
and when it does this it requires adaptation.
(The other extreme is fantasy immersion,
however, in which the software developer
goes to extremes with the new offerings of
the tech.)


A middle combination is preferred.  In
the music video, it isn't always big
mythical monsters battling the singer,
in other words.  It would be instead
using AI as a tool.


It has to be analyzed what the capabilities
will offer.

When you have a mobile tablet configuration that no
longer pairs with an office desk and chair and keyboard setup and
touch is the primary interface instead of moving a mouse, 
the UI has to be reconfigured but this did not take place on
early tablets around 2002-2004 at all. They didn't do 
anything to change the GUI software or hardware input from the
desktop computers and tried to map what the mouse was
doing to a stylus tip.  That is like not acknowledging
a change in conditions around you.  When changing
to a new context, it is sometimes the case that
the old comes in and doesn't work, like how when
the iPhone was being developed they tried to use
the iPod clickwheel but the conditions had changed
and they realized they needed to do something else.

If you made a pinball machine game
in VR, you would change around or add some aspects
to pinball and make the game really big or room sized.
But instead people would do things like use 
VR to actually reproduce pinball game machines and go up to 
them in VR as they exist in the real world and use
the paddles on the two sides.  There is no point to this.
The same was true for musical instruments,
that people would bring the music instruments
as they exist in the physical world and
have people attempt to play them in VR
with VR headsets.  In these cases, the software developers
are not respecting the change of medium
and context that has occurred.  
When you have a new technological medium, it is 
then on you to reconfigure and reconsider what existed previously
for the new conitions. You have to redo 
the musical instrument for the VR space and controls,
adapt the existing game to the difference in
space.

