
Features for File Navigators

FILETYPE MODES: FILTERING + VIEWER

1. FILETYPE MODES: FILTERING + VIEWER

In the File Navigator, there is an option
called images-only and it filters all
files displayed to just images and presents
them in a photo viewer presentation that has its own
views such as carousel, grid, and list.   This would allow
browsing a directory that contains images
while excluding other file types from the
listing. It allows browsing them without
having to open up a separate app.

The same could be applied to other file types
such as video and text.  And importantly, it
could be recursively applied to a directory
(taking in its subdirectories), so that a directory
with organized images in its subtree would
have all of the images listed and organized.

When videos are listed, they can be shown
with thumbnails that are made of a
grid of frames.


2. FILE AND DIRECTORY TAGGING

A related feature to this is tagging, including
recognition by the system that once the user
tags a file of a certain name that it will move
the file to a predetermined directory location
(e.g. "Video Project 1").  Tags also would
allow searching the file system in a different
way and setting up pseudo-directories that
compile a listing of all files and directories
of a certain tag or tags.


3. EVENTS

When a directory's contents changes and it is
registered as an observed directory, an action
is triggered, such as a script (or system action).



4. DIRECTORY NAMING EXTENSIONS FOR UI PRESENTATION

Appending a directory with 
    -images 
    -videos
    -text 
    
will make it automatically set up the presentation 
for it according to filetype. Adding a second extension such
as 

    -images-album
    -videos-grid  
    -images-grid
    
will default it to a specific view within
that presentation.


5. Applications for "Opening Pane"

When a file is selected, a list of
one-click applications appears in a list to
the right in a pane.  Clicking on it
opens the file in that app. So if it is a video
file, it will be separated by
Viewers (e.g. VLC) and Editors (e.g. ...)
A PDF will have Viewers and Editors
in the list.


6.  Operations on Selected Files

    > Operations menu

    Filenames
        - "Prepend Selected Files with Label..."
        - "Append Selected Files with Label..."
        - "Tag Selected Files..."
        - "Convert Selected Files to... (As Copy)"

    File Navigator >
        - "Place Selected Files in New Subdirectory".

        - "Place Selected Files in Parent Directory".


7. Paste Directory Structure As Text/JSON And
Directories are Made By The File Navigator.


Example directories structure (generated by AI):


├── 1_ACTIVE
│   ├── Inbox (everything lands here first)
│   ├── Today (empty this every night)
│   └── Projects (current big things only)
├── 2_HOME
│   ├── Finances
│   │   ├── 2025 Taxes
│   │   ├── 2024 Taxes (archived)
│   │   ├── Bank Accounts
│   │   ├── Credit Cards
│   │   ├── Investments
│   │   └── Receipts_2025
│   ├── House
│   │   ├── Appliances (subfolder + manuals)
│   │   ├── Mortgage
│   │   ├── Insurance
│   │   ├── Renovations_2025
│   │   └── Utilities
[...]



8. AI Filesystem Organizer Agent 
(mkdir and mv without overwrite privileges)

- Apply AI organizing agent to directory
an it recursively begins organizing the files and directories
according to the rules or instructions provided, including
looking inside the documents to see what they contain.
It can rename all of the files according to what they
contain after reading them.  The AI can be given context
for what the goal is for the directory and what it is for.

- Can tag a directory and its contents.

- Can generate tags, category names and descriptions for metadata
for files and directories (for the enhanced File Navigator)
so that files and directories have descriptions during browsing.

- Operations Menu > AI Agent > ...


9. Directory Contents' Groupings

A directory has another convention for
organizing its contents available besides
making subdirectories, which is Groupings.
When directories and files are listed in a directory,
they can show outlines around user-made (or later, AI-made)
groupings.  This way more files can stay 
at the top level of a directory hierarchy
because they have groupings.  In the File Navigator
listing, the default display is to list
groupings first alphabetically. 

















