The AI Chatbot Queries The User for Important Information 
Before Proceeding

ARTICLE SUMMARY

AI chatbots like Claude or Grok are all descendants of a "research preview"
from OpenAI in 2011 called ChatGPT that unexpectedly took off (hence
the technical "GPT" product name that persists to the present day).
Almost nothing was done to the core of the interaction sequence or how
a chat flows. There is a critical feature they lack which is the ability 
to gather information before answering. It isn't hard for the AI companies 
to implement this.  They just haven't done it.  Try out the difference by testing
out a prompt addition below.


PROMPT ADDITIONS 

Add one of these phrases to the end of a prompt to assist the AI in the
collection of relevant information and details for your
project or problem.  We will explain the reason to do
this in the section below, though you will find it self-evident
after using one of them.

- "Ask any questions before proceeding."
- "Ask clarifying questions."
- "For this project, collect information from me with 
default options selected and text answers filled in and
I will reply with changes." 

To illustrate, the user might say, "Help me get a desktop PC for under $500," 
but he did not realize before submitting the prompt that there are different 
desktop computer form factors like tower, mini, etc. as well as many other
specifications. Providing them will allow the AI to produce a more productive 
answer. It could also be that he realizes these aspects of buying a computer 
but the task of recalling and typing out each item is too demanding, especially 
for a mere AI chat session. It would be better if the AI came up with a list of
these items (RAM, hard drive space, processor speed, etc.) on its own
with default answers filled in.  Since this feature isn't found in any of the 
AI chatbots of today, the prompt additions above can act as workarounds.  
What they do is greatly improve the flow of the chat for complex projects 
where any wrong assumptions by the AI will put drag on the chat. 

In the future the prompt additions above can produce an actual interactive 
form inside the AI chatbot chat session, something possible in software now
but not provided by any of the apps yet.


THE PROBLEM: AI CHATBOTS DON'T REFLECT EXPERT/RECEPTIONIST
INTERACTIONS

An expert, such as an interior designer, knows questions to ask a client to
tailor results and efforts.  The questions that the expert asks also
are a consequence of having expert knowledge and training and are part of the
consultation. The AI is an expert on many topics. It can come up with questions 
to ask too, but in the current AI chatbot software convention it is never 
set up to ask them, which is just an historical artifact.



THE IMPORTANCE OF THE AI ASKING FOR RELEVANT DETAILS

As it stands today, if the user doesn't provide enough details and 
information, the AI chatbot is configured to answer with whatever assumptions it 
generates.
The problem is that there are some times where as soon as it does
this, the user will have to make changes it and fill in the information,
which greatly expands the chat length and work the user has to do, who
ends up chasing the AI down like this.
When the user asks the AI chatbot a question to get a solution,
often he won't realize or know much of the information 
that the AI requires to produce a satisfactory answer. 
So sometimes the AI might as well ask some questions before answering
so as not to waste the user's time and effort.





AI AS EXPERT

For an AI chatbot, the AI (an LLM in this case) can be viewed 
in terms of an expert since it is trained on so much data.
The AI chatbot of today doesn't feel finished in part because
this is normal in real life, that there is
information the receptionist or expert has to gather
that the client didn't realize or know needed to be provided.
If the client doesn't provide it, the receptionist 
will have to fill in the blanks with results that might be a mismatch
or unsatisfactory to the user.  This is what is happening right
now with the AI chatbots and it is a reason their productivity
is mixed.

Like in real life, the AI needs the ability to gather
information once given a task but right now it will only reply with
its own assumptions embedded for any information missing that
it would have collected, which necessarily will produce the occasional or frequent 
unsatisfactory experience with the AI, especially
for project questions.  Some tasks just require the collection
of more information if the user doesn't provide a specifications
document.




TYPES OF QUESTIONS THE AI WILL BE ABLE TO ASK IN THE FUTURE

- pressing questions - question the AI truly needs to
answer or assist effectively.

    - A small menu appears quickly underneath the user's query and 
    it has up to 5 options with number keys corresponding to
    response. 
        - E.g. "Do you want a 1) laptop or 2) notebook computer?" 


- questionnaire form - a list of questions for
the AI to provide the user so that it can collect
information.  It can have defaults selected.
Can be multiple choice or text, etc.
Can have levels of specificity.
    - example is a technical
    specifications questionnaire before
    the AI generates code.
    
    
    
