nct-ai-MissingAIChatAssistantFeatures

Still Today, AI Chat Assistants Have Barely 
Added to The Bare 2022 ChatGPT App Format.

Consider: The text generated by the AI is
not a product of the user and should
be considered computer output that is
manipulatable by the user with existing
GUI software conventions.  Understanding
how to revise the AI chat assistant requires
recognizing the change in situation.  Previously,
the computer never output large bodies of formatted
text.  But since it does:

You should be able to:
    - move paragraphs around, edit them, add them, remove
    them, and gradually turn an AI response into your own
    work.

    - edit list items in place, reorder them,
    and apply AI prompts to just the list or an individual
    list item.

    - use the mouse to select individual
    paragraphs or elements of the AI-generated
    response and apply a prompt to the selection.
    The AI will then modify the selected
    elements without generating an entirely
    new response.
        
Modifications to the output should
make use of the GUI, too, and not always involve
typing out commands as prompts.

    - From a GUI component library, 
    drop a configured component onto a list, 
    e.g. one that says "sort" that has been
    configured for ascending sort and it will
    sort the list.
    - drag a list from the AI output to a 
    scrapbook or bin (the same as copy and paste
    but a different mode for the user).

Deficiencies

- The list of AI chat sessions is not automatically 
tagged or categorized.  This makes it difficult
to browse them and make use of old chats, which
will get lost or forgotten unless they are searched 
for specifically.   The AI chats also only show up in
a sidebar and don't have a grid view.

- AI chats generate too much text for many responses,
and they never decide to answer with just two paragraphs.
There is also no way to control the length of a response
(E.g. length slider: short, medium, long).

- The AI chat assistants don't place any portions 
of their responses inside GUI controls, like tab views or
slideshow viewers, to compact the information.
They don't make use of multi-column layouts
on desktop web browsers for readability.  They don't paginate
any aspects of the response, leading to scroll fatigue.  
It is one long flow and tiring to scroll through for the
user.

- They don't let you delete any of the responses
or edit them.  Because you can't delete
them, the chat may feed the LLM unwanted information
or information you'd like removed from the chat.
The LLM will act on everything sent to it from
the conversation after each prompt, yet there is no way to mark
any parts of the conversation as outside of what
it should be sent.

- The AI assistants lack any second level
of action.  For example, they cannot go out and download
a podcast and transcribe it for you.  They cannot
fetch a web page and then display a thumbnail of it
inside the chat. In the case, that an AI chat assistant 
could carry out second level ofa ction and it didn't have a transcription
tool available, it would have to be able to go out
and install one, but none of the AI chat assistants
can have their functionality extendedin any way.  Different
users might want the AI to carry different sets of capabilities.
- So, the range of action of an AI chat should match that of an 
AI agentic code editor that can go out and download files, manipulate
them with terminal commands.  With today's terminal emulators that run in
the browser, the AI chat could execute terminal commands on the
text and media it generates and even install new programs.
- In summary, the AI chat assistants need to be able to take actions outside of
the chat. They have to be able to acquire capabilities 
not given to them in their initial state.
They have to be able to take action on the
information obtained from research.

- AI chat session data should be stored as a document
in its own document format, such as .aichat.
It would then be acknowledged inside the document whether
the AI chat has been edited.  The document
format should be flexible enough to allow the
user to slowly change it into a work document.  
That is, the user can edit the chat session 
and add images and other components
until it is finished or turned into a draft.

    - The AI chat assistant should accept commands
    about its own documents and filesystem, such as
    "combine chat session 1 and session 2".  It
    should accept commands about design and layout
    of the .aichat document, such as fetching
    images to place in the document.
    - From an AI chat session, a person might come
    out with a final print document after using
    consecutive AI commands.

- The .aichat document should support embedded
programs, which the AI can generate and then
the user can refine.

- The .aichat document can support different
views of its contents.  It should support
storing preferences and other metadata.
If it supports database formats like .sqlite,
it could serve as a powerful intermediate
step for research.

- A benefit of having a dedicated .aichat
document format is that AI-generated text
can be separated in directories from regular
user documents.  The output of AI can be
kept separate from regular output.

  




