nct-apps-restoreGUINormalcyAfteriOS

GUIs in desktop software in the mid 2000s for pro
apps can only feel outdated when the person using them
has been affected by a notion of our times, one in which supposedly
minimalism came in and eliminated unnecessary clutter and
progress has been made compared to the outdated GUIs of the pre-touch UI
past.  Apps from that era are certainly superior in terms of graphic design
because they followed graphic design principles that
have existed for a long time, in print.  Their window layouts were
planned out, they are comprehensible at first glance, the sections are distinct 
from one another, and the buttons stand out from their surrounding
controls and parent containers.  Importantly, buttons carrying icons
are actually labeled with text-- not left for the user to guess
as to what they mean deranged minimalist mentality that doesn't care
about the actual consequences of doing something, just the perceived
impressiveness of doing it.  Even if the person objects to the 
skeuomorphism of the times, which usually wasn't that intense, that isn't
all there was that was happening before deranged minimalism
came in and damaged normal GUI design and software and now has made
it so that companies everywhere, staffed by a later generation
of tech and software developers, no longer know what consumer and pro 
software should look like.  This is something made evident by 
all of the software released in the last few years, 
especially from AI companies, who instead of making software
that looks normal to interact with for getting work done, 
like Excel or a database program from the past,
keep putting mobile touchscreen style GUIs in their web and desktop
apps, which cannot possibly accommodate nested features and parameter
panels needed for complex applications.   A good example of 
well-designed, quality software was iLife, the Numbers, Pages, and other apps,
including Final Cut Pro (before Final Cut Pro X), that had 
normal arrangements of GUI controls.  Change is inevitable but
in the last few years it is really bad changes that have been
happening because most of the software community doesn't know what it's doing
anymore. Because it doesn't know what it's doing, it has come up with
the TUI-- the so-called terminal user interface-- and this has
actually become preferred for some people. VS Code, the most popular
code editor in use today, has a combination of very tiny text tabs
that are hard to click and interface panes that blend into
one another because they have no hints of lighting, just flat fills.  
At present, the confusion and adoption of
fake principles from touchscreen device software like iOS has resulted in 
design moves that are not-- the increasing corner radius of 
Mac OS Sequoia where the windows are so ugly that even
long-time Apple fans who use websites don't want it. 

Trends in GUI became broken after 2010 because of the iPad
and increasing popularity of smartphones, because the truth
is that Apple did not have real or substantial UI theory
behind the iPhone and iPad, it just started removing things
that existed on desktop GUI and make things bigger for touch input.
What occurred in the 2010s to the present was
not only stylistic evolution but the incorporation of non-principles
from GUI touch, from Apple, which has resulted in a loss
of coherence and usability for software GUI.  
The increase in text size for the interfaces was a gain, actually, 
as a rare exception to what was just said.
But take the example of tabs in tab view controls, in which there is
an accepted trend where they are made minimalist and just have
a line underneath the tab's text label.  This is an example of
something broken: they cannot look the same as 
underlined text, which is an act of deranged minimalism without 
regard to its impact.  Buttons, in this trend, are now without outlines and
they can be confused with text.  What has been
prioritized is the trendiness of minimalism to make everyone
feel like a GUI fits in with the times, at the expense
of usable GUI designs.  The buttons are also now all flat and without
any hint of shadow or highlight and so they have no contrast and the
so the designs are just bad.  It's a major degradation of GUI, 
and the only reason it has been accepted is because of a 
notion of feeling current and with the times that is actually
nonsense.  Invoice page designs don't have dividers between
lines of text in tables, so the items on the invoice read like
paragraphs.  That would, earlier, be equated with someone
who doesn't know what he's doing.



Returning to principles found in 2000s desktop UI,
not necessarily all of the styles of the time, 
is fixing the situation. Doing so is not a matter of
nostalgia because actually people don't know what 
they are doing with GUI. 
