nct-ai-naive-ancientChineseScienceStart

We this has potential for an AI.

Yin and yang, Wuxing, and the trigrams
provide an immediate, functional knowledge base 
that can be represented by language,
even if the machine is cogitating in
a state that is not inside language, 
because of all of the associations of these
concepts are interrelated and produce
general truths at their intersections and
combinations.  They also provide a basis
for process and change.

Truths about the world are inherently present
in any knowledge graph of yin-yang and Wuxing
(The Five Elements).  The following sentences 
could be easily formed from a graph of the
interconnected concepts from ancient Chinese science.
They are actually truths of the world because,
for example, nighttime is linked to cooler temperatures
because both are associated with yin.  It
is not only a convenient ontology, it is an 
accurate one.



- "In the winter, it is colder, darker, more still,
and a time when animals and plants hibernate."
This is a sentence mostly exhibiting qualities from the 
Water element, but each aspect can be discussed
in terms of yin, such as "colder," "darker."
- "It is the warmest in summertime.
Midday is when there is the most daylight."
Mostly exhibiting qualities from the Fire element.

These sentences would be generated from
the truths of yin and yang whereas in an
AI normally they would have to be either manually
defined as individual rules (without unifying aspects) 
or result from statistical associations from training.
They demonstrate the potential of this
approach, that the sentences can stem from
the built-in ontology of any trained
knowledge or received and analyzed information.

- "The nighttime is cooler than the day
and most wildlife is sleeping except for
nocturnal animals."
Here is a sentence mostly featuring qualities from the 
Water element, and although it is talking about
a yin time, it mentions the presence of yang,
the activity of nocturnal animals next to
yin, the dark and hibernation activity.
Naturally hibernation relates to wintertime.

Another point is that each sentence can be viewed at the 
overview level in terms of the Five Elements 
and then different aspects examined through 
yin and yang at the same time. 

We have an interconnected basis for
the seasons, time, astronomy, the human body,
directions, temperature, emotions, and even geographic
features and phenomena because of the Eight Trigrams
(wind, mountain, lake, etc.). These do all link 
together consistently in ancient Chinese science. 
Then when we want the AI to be able to receive
and respond to situations at a higher level of
abstraction still, we have the 64 Hexagrams
that describe everything in change while being composed
of the Eight Trigrams.  It provides us the
knowledge base for assessing external situations
across a range of persepctive.  It also 
provides a way to monitor situations in flux.

When modern knowledge is added next to the
truths of the knowledge graph and 
mapped to yin-yang and Wuxing accurately, 
the system can fit into and engage with 
the modern world:

- "When a high pressure system (yang)
arrives, it disperses clouds and inclement
weather. High pressure systems feature sinking air
(yin). Low pressure systems (yin), by contrast — with rising air
(yang), cloud formation, precipitation, instability, 
and "gathering" of weather are yin (receptive, condensing, moist)."
    - This is the kind of statement that the
    AI based on Wuxing and yin-yang would be
    able to generate by itself, just by
    having concepts linked into the knowledge graph.  
    Additionally, once they are linked into the knowledge graph
    they truly represent the truths of the situation.
    - Observed qualities in a situation
    of yin and yin, or one of the Five Elements (Wuxing), 
    can lead to a conclusion produced by a process
    similar to induction: there is cloud formation, preciptation,
    instability, and gathering of weather, so
    then may indicate a low pressure system.
    It shows that the usage of this ontology is bi-directional.
    
- The knowledge graph would contain a base of interconnected
concepts from ancient Chinese science, but there would be 
a mechanism for it to recognize and process new concepts
in the future.  Some statements would give it a correct
framework for placing modern knowledge
into yin and yang:

    - We can say that the Four Temperaments in the West 
    contain yin and yang and can be bridged to the Wuxing.  
    Phlegmatic (Water): max yin, min yang.  
    Choleric (Wood) - anger, spring:  low-to-middle yin high-to-middle yang (flux, rising yang).  
    Sanguine (Fire) - joy, summer: min yin, max yang.
    Melancholic (Metal) - grief, autumn:  high-to-middle yin low-to-middle yang (flux, rising yin).
  
    - We can say that Heraclitus' Logos is actually talking 
    about Taiji.
    - In the tropics, in the winter it is wettest, 
    corresponding to Water in Wuxing, for example,
    even though the warmth of the tropical climate
    corresponds to Fire.  Making this clear will avoid
    a misconception of the Wuxing as fixed
    groups of concept rather than cycles, relationships,
    and qualities.
    - Since in electromagnetism magnetic poles are
    north and south and electrical charges are 
    positive and negative, Taiji allows representing
    their duality and interdependence, along with the
    conceptual interdependence of electricity and magnetism
    itself. Magnetism and electricity propagate
    at a 90 degree ange to each other in alternation.
    Discussions of this topic will naturally be balanced.
    Mutual-generation and mutual-inhibition
    are found in Lenz' law.  Electricity can generate
    magnetism and vice-versa and both are aspects
    of electromagnetism.
    - Negative, both in numbers and electrical charges
    would be mapped to yin.  Positive, both in
    numbers and electrical charges would be mapped
    to yang.  Then, in discussions these would
    be naturally integrated in the generated answers.
    The ontology of yin and yang with respect to
    numbers will relate to positive and negative
    and north and south.

We would make sure that the system can represent
yin aspects inside a yang situation and
vice-versa.  Bass notes are sung by males, arising
from yang, but since they are low pitches this is also 
yin.  Treble notes are sung by females, arising from yin, 
but since they are high and active sound waves that
aspect is yang.  The roles of objects in a situation
will have multi-dimensionality in features and
relations to each other.  The storage and retrieval
has to be able to accommodate this.  What we do not
want is a defined relationship between yin and yang
that confines it to a limited set of descriptions
for objects, but rather the principles of interdependence, 
opposition, balance, etc. that go along with
the actual qualities of yin and yang.  We also
have in this situation of notes the fact that
there are 5 notes that correspond to the Five Elements
and they have qualities.
    
    - More mappings:
    derivative vs. integral also maps,
    roots vs. exponents.  This indicates we can 
map a large range of modern knowledge on 
our graph.   

Derivative ↔ Yang, Integral ↔ Yin
not only maps, it makes sense based on the
features of the two, with an integral
being receptive, containing, wholeness
and the derivative being instantaneous,
breaking apart, etc.

{
  "subject": "derivative",
  "polarity": "Yang",
  "relation": "mutuallyRootedWith",
  "object": "integral",
  "polarity": "Yin",
  "wuxing_layer": "Fire (peak action) → Water (accumulation)"
}

Knowledge graphs can act as the reasoning backbone.

Once mapped accurately, modern mathematics, 
physics (velocity vs. position, 
force (yang) vs. potential energy (yin), divergence vs. curl, etc.), 
computing (differentiation in backprop vs. accumulation 
in forward pass), even economics 
(marginal vs. total utility) all start generating 
balanced, internally consistent explanations 
without hand-coded rules.

All things of all kinds would be classified
this way, including for example in a notebook 
ruling lines on a page being yang that differentiate
and the empty space being yin and the darkness 
or the mark of the lines being yin or the lightness 
of the open space being yang.  By linking back to
the established qualities of yin and yang, every
situation is describable.

Probability and statistics map directly onto the Yin-Yang duality 
and Wuxing cycles because they embody the same fundamentals: 
polarity (certainty vs. uncertainty), 
interdependence (observed vs. hidden), 
transformation (update via evidence), 
balance (between extremes), 
and cyclic regulation (convergence/divergence, concentration/dispersion).

Wuxing layering — five phases as modes of statistical process / transformation:
Using the generative cycle (Wood → Fire → Earth → Metal → Water → Wood) and 
controlling cycle for regulation:

Wood (growth, expansion, branching possibilities) → Exploratory / branching phase — hypothesis generation, model complexity increase, increasing variance / degrees of freedom
Fire (climax, illumination, peak activity) → Inference / peaking phase — maximum likelihood estimation, mode finding, sharpest Yang concentration
Earth (centering, stabilization, harmonization) → Equilibrium / averaging phase — central tendency, regression to mean, Bayesian posterior centering
Metal (contraction, refinement, precision) → Reduction / regularization phase — pruning, sparsity, variance reduction, Occam's razor, controlling excess complexity (Wood)
Water (storage, depth, potential, flow) → Latent / foundational phase — priors, hidden variables, uncertainty reservoir, generative models feeding back into new cycles


Wu-xing does map to the Periodic Table as well,
as the metals are predominantly made of Metal,
but each has a unique combination of other elements.
At room temperature, Mercury manifests a state of 
matter corresponding to Water.  Temperature itself
is a matter of cold (yin) and heat (yang), indicating
that any scenario can have multiple dimensions
describable.  The noble gases can be said to be predominantly
made of Earth (stable, not needing anything).
Elements like Sulphur and Oxygen
map to being predominantly made of Fire. 
Nitrogen can be said to consist predominantly 
of Water.  They could be placed in the knowledge 
graph as compositions. States of matter correspond to the Five Elements,
with liquid being Water, Fire being gas,
solid being Metal, with Earth being less solid.

The meta-concepts of the AI include
yin-yang as well: action and generation 
(e.g. of text) map to yang and reception 
(i.e. of data) map to yin, such as taking 
in a text prompt.

A paragraph or page of text can be taken
in and then conclusions can be made
as a result of the AI's knowledge base with all of
the ancient Chinese cosmological associations,
including statements of emotion, gender
of the subject and objects in the sentences,
etc.  This is then leads to a different
process that does not exist in AI today
which is that at a later point it may
decide how to process the information provided
for storage and react to it.







