nct-socialMedia-badgesFirst

The social media notion of "followers" has played a dual role: 
as subscription (for those following) and a display of social proof, 
muddying the situation.  Instead of followers, 
the user can put badges on the profile for social proof and identification, 
of any kind.   In that case, follower count ceases to have relevance for 
users evaluating a profile, because if a profile has expended a lot of effort
putting together a badge section it indicates the profile owner has commitment
to the profile versus a newly registered profile with no followers on the old 
type of website.  In this way, it solves a certain problem.
(Clicking on a badge will show other users with the same badge).
The user can choose from thousands of badges or make a custom one like 
"home gardener" so that the user knows what the person 
is about, not only gets social proof.  This way something humble like 
"home gardener" has value.  The badges would not need to be tied to achieving 
a thing but can be descriptive or self-identifying. Badges would not cost money 
but be part of the service.

You can know a lot about a person from some badges, like if you have seen a
"has run an all-or-nothing crowdfunding project" badge, but you would
normally have to come across a post that says this or read more about
the person.  This way you can get a better picture of people using the
website at first glance.

Then it will play out that a profile can also be evaluated based on what
kinds of badges are followed.

Follower counts still exist behind the scenes only as subscription tools 
(you follow a “Home Gardener” because you want plant tips, not because 
you’re impressed by their number).

BADGE SECTIONS

What will be important is organization of the badges by the website,
such as "Can be hired for" badges would be separate from other badge sections.


MESSAGING FROM A BADGE

Badges also provide a way for users to message each other from the badge,
so a person might click on the "has run an all-or-nothing crowdfunding project" 
badge and send a message asking about the user's experience.


BADGE MODAL VIEW 

Badges act as mini-page hyperlink buttons.  After getting clicked, a badge modal 
view, chosen by the user can be a short modal box with some text or it
can be a composition page with photo galleries, text clippings, and hyperlink 
lists custom arranged  by the user.  The badge indicates what kind of badge view 
will appear after tapping it or clicking on it, whether it is a simple modal or a 
collage view.  Hovering over a badge with a mouse will show a preview of it
on desktop.

	1) modal view - easy for the user to make, consists of a chosen 
	modal box layout template and the user fills in the slots by tapping
	them / clicking them to configure.
	2) collage view - freeform arrangement
	3) data table - badges that just are a list, like links.

CONSISTENT UI FOR USABILITY AT A TOP LEVEL OF UI BUT AVOIDING THE COOKIE CUTTER
DATABASE VIEW OF PEOPLE THAT IS SOCIAL MEDIA

What we don't want is a cookie cutter looking profile like any of the 
social media websites, from the 2000s to the present, where it looks like an 
identification page and no one can customize anything.  The difference is that
we will let the user customize positioning and styling of 
certain elements on the profile page to the extent that major customization
can occure but not everything is moved around, meaning there is still some
stability in the page design.  We want to use grid-based designs for a purpose, which
is laying out information for presentation and 
not putting people in what look like (today) database views.  There should be a balance
between UI consistency of the website and letting the user customize that UI, and
the collage pages do this at the badge level view and the profile pages allow
customization at the profile page veiw.  In the modal view of the badge, the user 
can position big preview button links on the page like a collage, so that 
each badge is a mini personal page.  The elements placed on the page
can include tab views.  Each badge has its own URL for the user username/badge/badgeName.
A badge on the profile page has a symbol or graphical representation paired with its text.  
Clicking on it can have different outcomes.  




