nct-desktop-filepathIndependence

One thing is for certain on computers
and that is referencing a file or directory should
no longer depend on providing the right file path.
Certainly a better software architecture for the operating
system and filesystem involves assigning the files and directories unique IDs
that are separate from their displayed filenames and 
their paths (locations) on the filesystem.  It is absurd that
they are the axes of working with everything-- two properties,
location and filename, which are subject to change
except in the system directories.  Files can move.  
They can have their names changed.  Yet the entire system rests
on these being stable everywhere and there is no
alternative yet.

If stored in metadata, the user could assign multiple additional IDs with
more user-friendly and shorter names
while the original one might be long and rarely used
directly.  These IDs which could be referenced
in shell scripts, for example, and the operating system
would be able to find the file even if it had
been moved or renamed.  

The metadata containing unique IDs could also 
contain information about where
the file is allowed to travel so that, for example,
if it is moved on the file system and it is part
of a code project it cannot move outside of
the directory (which also has a unique ID) for
the project.  This adds another layer of relationships
where the files and directories have relationships
to each other in metadata.


This is the cause of many unnecessary errors
because the file can have been moved or renamed.
Like many problems, it is a vestige and byproduct
of the early days of computing. The computers
of today outgrew the conditions of those times
but these aspects were never updated. 

When code projects are loaded by a code editor,
traversing what they contain should exist independent
of their file paths, with the project loading
everything as a whole into a database where every
element or object has a unique ID independent of
its file location.  If a variable is in one file
or another it is tracked by its hidden ID
and not its flat name.  This also happens
 on the file system when apps are working
 with files and documents. If a file is open, it should
be given a unique ID and then if it is
moved or changed on the file system, the app should
be notified.  This happens on Mac OS
But really the app shouldn't write to the file system 
or read from it but instead an intermediate database that doesn't
depend on file paths but instead contains a mass of
file/document IDs. That's because as far as a program is 
concerned, in effect but not formally stated, 
at any time a file or directory's path *is*
its ID, and the location of a variable inside
a file is that variable's ID.  The first step
for addressing that issue is to made code documents
out of a format like XML but even still those
documents, as part of a project, should reside in a 
database and be storied by unique IDs, even if it
is a unique string suffix appended to their
filenames.
This is also applicable to the web, because if
a document is made with a unique internal ID,
it won't matter that it isn't located in a certain
directory on the web server anymore, such as 
if it moved, because it will be referenced by its
unique id.  The web browser also follows the
pattern just described, that it in effect
treats a file or directory's file path as its ID
and then if that file path changes, it can't
be accessed anymore.  So, a new world wide web
would have to work differently and not tie
access of documents to their filesystem paths.
file system paths of documents change regularly,
so this is an absurd problem that is everywhere
in computing.


