nct-howHardCouldItBe

This seemed like a weekend project but you found out
that to make a finished and complete product it won't
be a simple or quick job, as there are more aspects
than you anticipated.  It won't work to
stop at the simple implementation that you envisioned
and that doesn't really exist, was only your assumption. 

It doesn't actually allow what you are trying to do
directly.  There is a catch and it requires a fair number of
workarounds.

There are many existing solutions out there but they
cost money you don't want to spend or they aren't
a proper fit.  You are better off making your own.

There is an area of knowledge you thought you
knew enough about for this project because you
thought it would only require traveling
the same direction, picking up facts that fit in,
based on your initial understanding of it.  Though
your knowledge of it is more than others, it 
is not actually the advanced understanding required
for the situation, which requires much more practice
on your part.

You didn't account for some steps and thought that
by being resourceful you could overcome what usually
holds people back, but even with craftiness and resourcefulness
there is a large volume of work to undertake to finish
the job.

People who do this for a living aren't as simple or shallow as
you imagined and they have to acquire more knowledge (of
things you didn't consider or know about) and practice 
more than you thought.  Your knowledge of it
was more than others but this is an entire field of
study, people get a degree in it, and you just realized 
this after encountering the steps needed for a basic endeavor.  
Though you have had similar experiences, what you were doing 
wasn't the same and you were involved in a tiny portion.  
This is the rest of the field you are uncovering.

You saw that the experts in this field have some flawed
approaches and conclusions, on the face of it even, 
but even so they had to master information
that you didn't know was part of the situation.





