nct-altterminal-theTerminalDiscussedAsAMultiProgramPortal

The command line interface, provided by a terminal app,
should be examined for what conveniences and benefits it provides 
over the GUI so that a later generation can be devised that originates 
from within the GUI, in a form that is keyboard-driven
and also just as nimble.  To investigate the differences, consider the following. 
In a GUI desktop computer environment, a window on the screen belongs 
to only one software application.  A window will only ever contain interface
controls for its parent GUI application.  (It will not belong to another app).
Switching to another software application involves moving to a different set of windows 
that are controlled by it. The single exception to this, and a reason it is 
preferred sometimes for work, is the Terminal app, which not only allows using
the same window to open different programs in a single session, 
it allows using more than one program at a time in a line sent to the shell,
sometimes chaining programs.  In addition to this, the parent GUI window for
the Terminal app allows opening up tabs so that more than one CLI shell is open.  
Since multiple programs can be used or opened inside the same terminal or window,
the terminal can then be regarded as a flexible, multi-program portal.  It
might be compared to a multi-game arcade cabinet that allows the player to 
select from different video game titles at the main menu but use the same 
arcade controls for any one of them.  The key difference is that it works
that way incidentally for the programs it runs.  The advantages are 
a by-product of history whereas if it is done over within GUI conventions,
the programs might all make use of a standard, keyboard-driven GUI kit.


The Terminal Discussed As A Multi-Program Portal

Originally a single terminal was the whole computer experience, hence the name 
terminal since it was a CRT monitor connected to the mainframe computer 
with a keyboard.  Much of what makes the terminal feel powerful today 
rests on GUI conventions.  It is utilized most often inside the hybrid setup
of modern GUI that provides it additional GUI wrapper conveniences and places
it into the larger context of the full GUI computer experience.  The user will 
open up one or more terminal windows concurrent with other GUI applications.  That of
course wasn't what the terminal was about, but it does happen to work well, 
like opening up multiple virtual computer monitors from the UNIX past. In this setup, 
the terminal provides a lot of versatility, it often bypasses the friction of 
the GUI for professional computer work and rapid use of small programs
and navigation of the file system, and it also allows certain kinds of 
tasks to be accomplished that cannot be done anywhere else due to the combination
of file system and shell programs, which are often foundational to the computer's
operations as well.  An entire kit of programs comes with the Terminal, 
many of which were developed at or descended from Bell Labs.
The programs themselves carry a lot of power, even if their conventions aren't all easy
to memorize. They often make sense within the UNIX system.
Every usage of the UNIX shell, what is actually inside the Terminal's app rectangle, 
starts at a single line of text, the shell prompt, and this is the limited but
agile convention provided.  

The speed of usage comes from the kit of programs being 
available at the shell prompt along with conventions for fast execution of
commands.  At the shell prompt, just two keys type ls, the 
program to list the current directory, two keys copy a file with cp, another two
move a file with mv, and three keys, ssh, let the user open 
a remote shell. This is a central aspect of the terminal's perceived 
agility and power, that each new line of the shell can go in any 
functional direction because all that is needed is typing out program names 
that are most often 4 characters or less.  Interactions with the programs
are usually brief before the program terminates, so the user is 
often using many small programs consecutively that execute and terminate 
rapidly.  The other type of program takes over the shell, like a text editor. 
If the terminal had to be used today the way in its original context, without
any windows available, it would be far too limiting.

If we are to upgrade the CLI, the Terminal app, we can identify what makes it
indispensable still today but what isn't recognized as part of its user interaction
dynamic.  Then we can move from that to the next generation built inside the GUI.
In other words, a GUI terminal shell prompt might not work the same way. 

First, we would state what we are working with which is a multi-program portal, 
a seemingly timeless interactive scheme because it hosts programs that all 
follow the same rules. It originally hosted all programs that follow the same rules because that is
all that the computer experience could provide in the times.  Brought into
the present, it becomes a convention that is a self-contained kit that
extends from the base level of the system.  The programs all have to fit 
inside the same container.  They have to be controlled by keyboard in the 
same way.  There are basically three types of programs that run in this
multi-program protal: 1) no interaction, terminates after execution 
2) minimal interaction, such as y/N questions and 
3) application event loop programs like text editors and email clients.

The Terminal acts as the portal for the programs and, as mentioned, this is  
analogous to a multi video game arcade machine that can load different games 
on the same upright cabinet, all of which use the same joystick and buttons. 
The other machines might have customized controls for their games.  
For the Terminal, no program can actually go outside of the rules 
because the functionality to do it just isn't provided.  You cannot
show an image inside the terminal window because there is no function
for your program to show it. You cannot draw a GUI control because it doesn't
have it in its SDK.  These limitations, as severe as they are, made
a uniform multi-program portal.

Though this interactive scheme was in no way designed to provide
benefits for modern computing, when programs all have to follow the same 
appearance, there is consistency across everything used inside the terminal.  
It is like the camping multi-tool with all of the utensils that fold out of 
the same holder.

In contrast with this, every GUI software application launches and manages its 
own user interface and exists separately in multiple aspects. Each 
software application will carry with it its own GUI organization and 
interactive schemes that are particular to its style and purpose, even if
it follows the larger system guidelines.  GUI applications interact with
the user through graphics-based analogies of buttons and physical controls
and using the mouse to activate them.

Meanwhile, all terminal programs are behave in the same way because 
there is no way to do anything but update characters in the display.
If they do provide any kind of persistent GUI, it is because they are
manipulating the characters in the terminal window in a way that wasn't provided. 
Then there is an important aspect which is that the programs that run inside the 
terminal, if they don't specially exist as persistent GUI, will terminate after 
execution. They are transient by default.  With everything driven by text 
characters, the limited UI for programs links into the ease of typing out commands to 
navigate the file system and manipulate the files with the programs that run 
and then exit. It produces an altogether different dynamic, but since it is old, 
it is often recognized that an upgrade is due.  Everything is keyboard-driven 
and mouse has no role in the CLI. If the mouse is to have a role, it should 
make use of key-clicks where the click of the mouse takes place because a 
keyboard key served as the click button.


The terminal or UNIX shell focuses on the filesystem as its constant reference.  
A program executed is possibly affected by or affects the current working directory.
Some programs in the terminal play a role of commands for this shell even
thought they are necessarily executable programs, such as ls, mv, cp, cd, pwd.  
This distinction isn't made in discussions of UNIX shell, but it is this way 
in practice, with the user typing out a small subset of available programs
most frequently.  A command like "cd" (change directory), when it is 
treated as a command in a next generation of UNIX shell/terminal, can then be mapped 
to a keyboard key or a physical button located to the side of the screen, just to 
give an example.  A conversion of the UNIX terminal to a touchscreen app
might start by placing ls, cd, mv, etc. as buttons to the side of the
text screen (with line break added for "ls").  As soon as you make this
change you then have the opportunity to make a target GUI region for "ls", such
as a tray that slides out.  It then gives you the opportunity to let the user
touch one of the directories or files in that tray.  All of this implies that
the conversion to a different context will lead to and require a lot of
changes, adaptations and revisions.

If there is to be an upgrade to the UNIX shell or terminal it would account for 
classifications of programs' functionality.  In GUI apps, this already takes 
place, where individual functions that would be programs in the UNIX shell are 
made into menu items.

The GUI has a different dynamic for navigating the filesystem.
It is worth noting that the manual use of "ls" adds some occasional
speed to the UNIX shell / terminal because it is always optional for the user
to view the current directory's contents.  Along with this, pressing
the tab key after typing part of a filename means that a destination or
target file can be accessed quickly.

Strictly speaking, calling it "the terminal" is more accurate than 
"command line interface" because it is just an implementation of old terminal
screens for UNIX shells and the user interface wasn't the topic at the time. 
We're talking about the terminal because it was the computer interface
and personal computers often were built upon this, which is encoded
characters.  

A Next Generation Terminal

Upgrading the Terminal to be GUI-based and keyboard-driven at the same time
would require a lot of rearrangement and changes of the current UNIX shell.
The requirement might be that anything in the Terminal window is clickable
or selectable, but the user never has to use the mouse.  For example, typing
'ls' for a directory that has a lot of files might insert a fixed height
box into the vertical shell feed but since it would immediately have
focus the right and left arrows would allow navigating its contents. 
It's a technique that would cut down on feed overflow.

The command line would exist as a GUI textfield control at the bottom, but 
additional commands might exist for manipulating the GUI of the Terminal
window.  For example, typing lsl, adding additional l, would open
a directory pane to the right of the terminal.  Focusing the pane might
involve a shortcut like Alt+2 if the pane is labeled as the second pane.




