
NOCTIVAGOUS DESKTOP OS

A lot of unrecognized limitations in software GUI 
are vestiges from the 1980s.  Why is there only 
one clipboard to copy to?  When you copy something to
the clipboard, why is there no way to access it
or look at it?  You don't get even a menu
indicator.

In fact you could have an operation that is
set up to Control/Command+C "Copy" (
which is actually copying the data of the
selected object(s) to a running server
that is accessible by all programs) straight
to a file if you were able to set that up.
It could be the case that the Control/Command+C "Copy"
command were configurable in the Edit menu to
send the data to a Scrapbook app or a file or
make new files with each operation-- instead
of it being a temporary place for the data.

The desktop itself seems to be a conundrum:
what is it exactly?  It is more of a bulletin
board for quick reference.  So when people
saw that there was a need for more than one
of them they conceptualized it not as framed 
boards for the purpose of quick reference but
as entirely separate workspaces being swapped
out. For this reason a lot of people find
multiple desktop workspace functionality of
operating systems to be unpleasant. It would
actually be more stable if the "desktop" were
a carousel of bulletin boards (what it serves 
as today) that is not associated with a specific
workspace.  This carousel's loaded bulletin board
would remained fixed whereas what could exist in
virtual space outside of the computer monitor
are the windows, with a conveyor system of moving
them in and out depending on which area they are in.  
In this way, a computer screen will be
regarded as a spatial frame and the limitation
of the frame would be acknowledged at the 
bulletin board carousel level, what is now "the 
desktop", and not having items outside of that
frame.

BENEFITS OF EXTENSIONS IN THE FILE NAVIGATOR: NON-APPS (FILTERS)

Let's say you download an extension for the File Navigator 
that is a pack  of image conversion macros that can be installed in
the File Navigator Extensions directory.  
They can be based on a scripting language so you can examine 
them and they can also include binary programs. When you 
call one of them, they can through the scripting language
put a dialog box up so that you can convert or operate
on the selected image or do batch processing.  In this way
the user can customize the File Navigator to his work.

The goal of the OS is to have everything a user needs.
But let's say that there is a certain kind
of file viewing the user wants natively available inside
the File Navigator. With an extension that serves this role,
this will be available.


THE LIGHTWEIGHT APPS AND UTILITIES AS EXTENSIONS FOR THE FILE NAVIGATOR

In the 1990s every app took a lot of computing resources
but as time went on every app was treated the same
even though many can just be built into the File Navigator
as small extensions, which would reduce the number of
apps in the app list for a task bar or dock.  An extension
to the File Navigator also allows for other types of
small utility programs that may just be for specific
tasks.

A calculator doesn't have to be opened as a separate app
inside the File Navigator.  Relatively lightweight
viewing and editing programs can be embedded into
the File Navigator.  Viewers and editors for various 
file types can be installed as extensions and open
up windows within the File Navigator.
When the activity is more involved and takes more time, 
the user can open up an app.

This also holds true for batch operations applied to
files.  It should be possible in the File Navigator
to make use of another type of extension which are 
GUI wrappers for terminal commands and, 
for example, select 10 images and have the File Navigator
make a new directory where they are all sized in different
combinations.  The File Navigator should be much more
extended.

EXTENDING THE FILE NAVIGATOR

File Navigator --> Workspace (File Navigator + Extended Functions)

Some functionality found in smaller apps, such as text editing 
and basic photo editing, should be available inside
the File Navigator without launching a separate app.

	- Make a blank text file and edit it.
	- Open up a text editor.
	- Go through a PDF.
	- Compress or convert an image file in place (copied)
		- "Image Functions"
			- "[X] Convert to  [JPG]
			   [X] Compress	   [80%]
			   [ ] Crop		   [   ]
			    OK]
				"
	

When a window opens that views or edits files in
the workspace, it can have a different appearance.

For full spreadsheet editing, the user opens up the
spreadsheet app.  But for just editing or looking at
the document in a normal window size, this can be an extension
to the File Navigator.

Since there will be a lot of windows, it will
	
The Finder or File Navigator should be much more capable 
of producing editing, and processing files.  It should 
be able to perform editing functions on many file types
without launching apps.   These would be extensions built
for the File Navigator.

INTEGRATION OF THE WEB INTO FILES IN THE FILE NAVIGATOR.

If a file contains a link to a website and it ends 
in .weburl the File Navigator can view the website
inside the File Navigator (with a WebView) without having 
to open up a web browser.  But importantly, interactions
that take place within this WebView can directly connect
to the File Navigator, allowing the user to make
a drag-line, for example, from a hyperlink inside
the WebView to a file system location.


APP CONTAINING WINDOWS

The typical File Navigator window of today 
shows a list of files or links in the leftmost panel
and then files are navigated to the right.
A list view in the leftmost panel can be clicked on 
and maintained.

In fact a window like this, where there is a list
on the left, can be a container for the smaller apps
like we just mentioned, with the list being
various programs that are open that are extensions
installed in the File Navigator such as calculator
or lightweight spreadsheet editor.


-- FILES AND DIRECTORIES --

FILE AND DIRECTORY GROUPS AND SUBGROUPS

Some files and directories should be in a collection
within a directory.  And within that one or more subgroups
can be established.

Additionally, another feature of collections is
that the user will be able to determine the listing
order of the files so that they are.

LISTING ORDER OF FILES AND DIRECTORIES WITHIN A DIRECTORY

Even without using groups or collections within
a directory, it can be possible for the user to determine
the listing order of files and directories so that
they show up in an organized way.  This would be
helpful for establishing the linear presentation of
a directory in a list view.


THE FILE NAVIGATOR MASKS FILES AND DIRECTORIES

The reality is that if a file navigator
acknowledged configuration files within a directory
it could render it in any way, including with
behaviors.



LAYERING THE CONCEPT OF READ/WRITE FOR GUI

Let's say there is a file type called a form.
It is read-only unless you open it inside
a program to edit it.  But what are you editing
about it?  The arrangement of the form or its values?
The typical document, with the exception of PDF,
is either a document you read or one that you edit.
In a viewer, you are just reading the file
and you usually can't save any values to it.  
A PDF, for example, that you have to go into the 
program that





——-----
2024


REPLACING DRAG AND DROP BETWEEN SOFTWARE APPLICATIONS
instead of drag and drop between applications:
intermediate spaces

one application: “browse to find file”
	  	“drag onto this area”

instead 
——> put flag in flag column or menu
——> move to place of file 
——> key-click from flag to the file (or type out what is in the key-label







App icons are not on the windows, which
would improve the app experience right away.

Window thumbnails could appear in
the menubar dropdown lists, for any app when it is active, and have
corresponding keyboard shortcuts displayed.  The
thumbmails could be much larger than the menubar.

Also, the frontmost window of the app could provide
thumbnails of other windows in the app or
references to them in the titlebar.
The windows are usually not referring to each
other.  The frontmost window, no matter where it
is, would make a frame starting from the corner
that can make the largest rectangle on screen.
You press a key and all other windows in that
app are shown as thumbnails.





APPLE

—> Windows currently cannot be scaled down
(shrunk) and moved around in a shrunken state.

—> Folders cannot be made bigger than other
folders.

—> Image documents cannot be made bigger
than other image documents.

—> There are no tabbed views on the desktop
for organizing (unless with add-ons).


One section of the keyboard does not apply to
one section of the screen, with another section
of the keyboard sending information 
to another screen.

—



Grouping or locking windows 
together so that they move in step or are always available together.


	exclusive index selection + horizontal stack —> segm control

	multiple index selection + horizontal stack —> segm control


----


slider with L and R steppers


