nct-softwaredev-guidelinebasedlayouts

GUIDELINE-BASED LAYOUTS 
A software developer can construct a layout manually with
a flex or fixed guideline or make use of premade/programmed
scaffolds of guidelines.

A guideline is a layout line spanning either the horizontal or vertical axis
on which a GUI element 
    - can have one of its box edges affixed.  
    - can use to center.
    
 
So, to center a button of predetermined width and height 
in the middle of the viewport horizontally and vertically, 
the software developer can set up two flex-based guidelines 
(they are deposited in terms of ratio to the dimensional length 
they are on), one vertical at 0.5 of the viewport width and one 
horizontal at 0.5 of the viewport height.  This then makes
a crossing.  The button then has its center origin placed
on both guidelines.  If there were only one guideline,
such as a horizontal guideline, the button would by default remain
fixed to the far left edge of the viewport while having its
vertical length aligned on the horiziontal axis in one of
three ways: top, bottom, centered.  It would be there until
a vertical guideline was applied that determined its y coordinate.

An object can also set its offset/margin relative to a guideline.

Every layout has at least one guideline and every guideline
belongs to at least one (blank) scaffold.  The premade
scaffolds that come with the system come with parameters.


GUIDELINE GRIDS (Scaffolds)

Guideline grids are premade scaffolds provided by the layout
system and it is expected that a layout has more than
one. An object can use guidelines from more than one scaffold,
such as one fixed scaffold and one flex scaffold, allowing 
one edge to remain stationary while the other is set to
move as the viewport width moves.

We'll start with a 12pt grid and the buttons
and elements are laid out according to the guidelines
(the grid lines in this case).

    1) A FIXED GRID

    2) A FLEX GRID -

    3) AN INSET FRAME
    The frame of the viewport is brought inward by
    a certain fixed value, producing 4 guidelines.
    
    4) CUSTOM GUIDELINE PLACEMENT
    
The layout engine recognizes multiple, layered guideline grids (scaffolds)
for any layout and allows an object to use lines from
more than one grid.  This way, a button can use the left
inset frame edge as a fixed location and then in a different
flex grid.



A GUI ELEMENT'S BOUNDING BOX AS PROVIDING GUIDELINES; THE GUIDELINE LAYOUT TREE

Once an element has been placed on a guideline, objects
can be laid out relative to its bounding box.


TECHNICAL SPECIFICS




EXTRA: COMMANDS FOR DEFINING/PROGRAMMING A SCAFFOLD SETS

We mentioned that the system comes with premade scaffolds
but these can be programmed with a language or parameters
for different situations.

    - repeatInterval
        - xStart and xEnd (for vertical)
        
        - yStart and yEnd (for horizontal)

A BENEFIT:
- There is only one layout engine: the guideline engine.
- There are only two kinds of scaffolds:
- Static (premade or custom fixed/flex/inset)
- Dynamic / programmable (FlowScaffold, MasonryScaffold, etc.)

All wrapping, flowing, masonry, staggered, or any future exotic layout is just a dynamic scaffold with a different script.
Defining programmable scaffold sets eliminates the need for a separate flow-layout engine by turning traditional wrapping flow into a pure constraint problem. A dynamic FlowScaffold is given the list of child elements, their measured sizes, the available width, the desired gutter and line-spacing, and a simple wrapping rule.



HELPER FUNCTIONS FOR MAKING SCAFFOLDS

subdivide(direction:horizontally parts:3 gutter:12pt inset:0)

element.subdivideHorizontally(
    parts:   Int,              // number of equal (or weighted) subdivisions
    gutter:  Dimension = 0pt,  // space between each part
    inset:   Dimension = 0pt,  // padding applied to the leftmost and rightmost edges
    weights: [Float]? = nil    // optional explicit weights instead of equal parts
) → [GuidelineScaffold]

When you call
myContainer.subdivideHorizontally(parts: 3, gutter: 12pt, inset: 16pt)
the system instantly creates a new temporary dynamic scaffold that is 
automatically parented to myContainer and returns it (or returns its three 
column guideline pairs) so you can use them immediately.
The scaffold contains exactly these named vertical guidelines:

myContainer.subdiv3.col0.left     → inset
myContainer.subdiv3.col0.right    → inset + (width - 2×inset - 2×gutter)/3
myContainer.subdiv3.col1.left     → col0.right + gutter
myContainer.subdiv3.col1.right    → col1.left + (width - 2×inset - 2×gutter)/3
myContainer.subdiv3.col2.left     → col1.right + gutter
myContainer.subdiv3.col2.right    → parent.right - inset



EXTRA: GUIDELINE BEHAVIOR DECLARATIONS

Guidlines can be programmed with behaviors.  The scaffolds
can as well.  Can accept actions to trigger behaviors and states.
This will eventually link into any programmed app scenario.






