nct-ai-SelfModifyingSystems

A deterministic machine or algorithm can be said to carry 
a decision tree or graph. The flow of the logic and the functions executed,
in combination with the values returned from the functions,
makes the program.  A self-modifying system might be said to
add another aspect: it carries a decision tree for how to 
modify parts of the decision tree or graph.  When certain
conditions are met, it might examine what needs modification,
make changes, and test results.  When has a conclusion 
been made that the approach of the decision tree should be 
modified?  And what aspect is immutable?  How does the
modifying layer of the machine compose new features and
change old ones?  This is an entire field of discussion.

A system that changes itself would certainly carry
rules by which to add, modify, or remove components and
functionality, in multiple areas where this applies for
the system. It would possess mechanisms designed to 
change its structures and contents, and the system itself would be designed for
modification unlike a typical deterministic machine.
The variations in design for such a system
extend in many directions because what is changed
and how it gets changed is up to the engineer.

Generally systems attempt to maintain equillibrium in
their operations. Even if they
are designed for intense periods of operation, they strive to
recover or prevent excess. They have components that
cool off the heat or warm what is getting too cold.
Their components and arrangements often adjust for
excess and deficiency in real time but also operate to
prevent long-term wear. They may have maintenance components that
remove waste or re-order the result of drift over time.

In many respects, self-modifying machines are an
unchartered area, even in conventional computer programs.
The software produced sits at two extremes: 
deterministic object-oriented or procedural programs and 
neural nets, even though the procedural and object-oriented
kind could move towards greater self-mutability
without the need for a neural net.  It just hasn't
happened very often.

A self-modifying feature would have to respect similar
principles to regular machines (in this area called
self-modification) to be stable, even if different
self-modifying systems are designed for different
levels of mutability in different areas. An unchanging
core surrounded by self-modifiable features is the
first natural design. What features are allowed to
change and what it takes for one to be allowed to (what
threshold) is a major set of considerations: should it
be the information delivered, the mechanisms that
deliver the information, the format? What is fixed?
What is mutable? What should the machine be equipped to
know? There are no definite conclusions, just like
there are no conclusions as to what a machine would be.
It depends on the application. It is expected that
whatever is mutable by the system itself might produce
phenomena unanticipated by the designer. This is where
rooting the system in solid principles comes into play.
As long as equilibrium is respected as a guiding
principle and the process of self-change is monitored
and balanced, it should be possible to do this without
too much anxiety.

Very high levels of mutation amount to hallucinations
of reality, which might be equated by some with
perceptual garbage. Metamorphosis has to have a
purpose. A system might metamorphosize or it just might
gradually change what is needed to carry out its
objectives.

As for what is modifiable in the system, this can be
classified according to different areas. The first and
most common already are the most flat: the settings or
configuration information and the logs of activity.
These two are the most direct expressions of stored
memory. For the first category, settings, the machine
draws from the settings to determine its operations.
For the second, the machine makes a record of events.
If equipped it will make use of these records, these
logs, for its future operations. It might change
configurations or settings based on its mechanical
analysis of the logs.

For a clock all internal efforts end up at the clock
face. If that clock is used to log events, its position
is used when the events occur to mark them.



