AI models for code are kludge handlers for our
degenerating software world where improper moves
are becoming the norm and accepted in the new
generation of software developers whereas 
they would not have been a couple decades ago. 


1. TYPESCRIPT 

-> Need typed variables in JavaScript?  Understandable. 
Does the W3C know?  They do but they didn't want to
do anything to add variable typing, as far as we know.  
You needed it, so someone wrote a programming language on top of JavaScript
called TypeScript.  On top of JS and made out of JS, because
the JS committee won't put in typed variables, there is TypeScript. 
People use TypeScript everywhere, but JS itself never gets the upgrade.  
Also, TypeScript breaks from one version to the next when 
the TypeScript team feels like making 
code-breaking changes-- a programming language extension 
written out of the programming language.

KLUDGE: TypeScript itself and the different code-breaking
changes.


2. NODE.JS
-> Need a good backend programming system?  Someone
hacked with JavaScript-- an already controversial programming
language for the web-- and turned it into a backend programming
system, even though it wasn't designed for that.  
Go ahead and avoid that if you wish, but its package manager, 
npm, is used everywhere.  Well, someone else thought npm was 
too slow, so they made a new, faster drop-in replacement 
for npm called bun.

3. PYTHON VERSIONS AND PACKAGE MANAGEMENT

-> You thought you could get away from this by using Python,
but Python changed at lot from version 2.
You haven't heard of PEP 668, which makes you play
hopscotch just to run a basic script whereas previously it
was really simple, you just typed python scriptname. The pip 
(Pythong package manager) team doesn't want you install packages system-wide because
that was causing problems because of bad software design.  
Now re-install them again and again for every individual project!  
Someone came up with a solution for this, called uv.  It is written in Rust.

KLUDGE: The Python script can't be run directly anymore,
its packages aren't systemwide, and the supporting
package manager overcomes what the Python organization
didn't handle well to avoid inconveniencing Python users.


KLUDGE -->   Wrap HTML with functions 
to make reusable components. A system
where you put HTML template code 
as return values inside functions.  It's messy,
it's official, and now widely accepted, but it isn't
proper.

KLUDGE: Use some trendy HTML/JS/CSS 
third party solution because the web browser doesn't have
utilities for what it.  The W3C won't put it in there ever, or maybe
next decade.

FACT: CSS, HTML, and JS  were already a hodgepodge of 
separately made tech, never revised together to add
features and unify them in response to emerging needs 
and the W3C hardly acts as the web software development
environment balloons out of control.

-> jQuery's functionality that was enthusiastically embraced
by web developers was ignored by W3C as a sign to
to incorporate those needs into the browser itself, but instead
those same capabilities have been rewritten in different forms.

At least the AI models should be cognizant of the situation
that there have always been things written out of things 
they were not designed for, with Objective-C, for example,
being written out of C and C++ being a set of add-ons to C
for implementing OOP.  It's that in recent years, especially
the last decade, it has for some reason happened less often
that people start over when they should or work on the
fundamental codebase of the programming language or system
to implement features instead of writing add-ons and workarounds.


