nct-ai-apps-walkthroughApp

The issue with the current trend
of AI's use as an assistant is that 
the interaction with the user
stops after a single prompt given, It 
it doesn't have the capability, like a "wizard"
of the past, to continue the interaction, to make 
consecutive interactions 
with the user for a task where it collects 
information before taking action or asking questions,
give instructions to the user for how to accomplish
a thing, act inside software to do something for the user, 
and verify that the task was accomplished
successfully. It can show the user how
to do things.  This was in the past
called a "wizard" or walkthrough,
but when these walkthroughs are made with AI they
are all custom for the specific app and there
is not one yet that can be used across different domains.  
The AI model is not domain specific,
so there can be a walkthrough app that
covers a broad range of activities.

A multi-purpose, general walkthrough app
that has the ability to work with the
entire GUI desktop OS will be able to
interact with any software package,
launch tutorials, guide, etc. for
any app and be utilized for any purpose.  
It means that, if given a PDF or told to 
research the topic on the web, 
it can teach the user how to 
use any involved or complex app and it can 
carry out any task.  The key is that it
is able to serve its own forms 
to the user to collect information 
and it will adapt to any task.
It can ask questions of the user
to verify that something was accomplished
to satisfaction or whether it needs revision.

A walkthrough app can walk the user 
through any number of tasks and implement 
them, including making a budget.

The AI model is knowledgeable about
a very wide range of issues and as long
as it has specific information given
to it for accurate instruction and executive, 
as well as utilities or resources that
let it carry out tasks, it will be able
to collect data.

Uses:
-- Building apps, with the AI collecting
information on project requirements and
design specifications, with its custom 
generated forms along the way.
-- Designing songs, with the AI.
-- Walkthrough questionnaire for
getting projects started.