RESTORING PROCESS TO USING GENERATIVE AI


The software issue of process for using generative AI is completely missing, with everything being collapsed into a prompt of text for the output (for images, video, or text).  The software UI directly produces the media without any preview or intermediate step.   After the AI produces the ouput, you won't immediately realize how many details it actually filled in on its own. 


1. The generative AI tools need to collect information first.

You need to be able to control every aspect of what is generated, but not merely through the labor of typing it out.  This means the user should be configuring premade parameters, such as components named Lighting, Setting, Vegetation, etc. For generative AI to work for production of images and video, it needs dedicated software applications built around it.  If a story is being made, all of the components should be provided for describing each character and scene in the software, and the AI can assist with setting up parameters.  Just like normal, you need a plan to review.  In other situations, the AI might generate a multi-part questionnaire to collect information.  The user interface should go far beyond just accepting typewritten prompts.


2. You need a preview of what generative AI is going to do so you know what to expect and can make changes.

Pose-able wireframe models and storyboard sequences will increase the probability of expected output for the user. The AI can also generate previews for the user, like how 3D software can do low-intensity rendering.  This will allow the person to make adjustments.  Even if you just give the AI a line or paragraph of text for a prompt, it should still show you all of the details it filled in before it generates the output.     


3. The AI should only generate final stage output after you have approved.  

Gone should be the experience of having something surprising come out of the AI, unless the user specifically wants that kind of situation.  For example, before the AI code editor inserts the code, it should give a summary of what it is about to do so that its plans can be reviewed.


In summary, the generative AI tools need to collect information, show a preview, allow you to make adjustments, and then let you decide when to approve the plan before the AI begins.

