Placing the LLM in a  pre-made component 
environment would give it the structure
it needs to avoid making slop code bases.
But this time there is no need to limit the
range of components to GUI.  It can also 
include customizable building blocks
on the logic end, as well as kits, such as a
prefabricated settings window that
stores its data to a destination.  It might
be called "Basic Settings Kit" and within
the larger system act as a module plugged in.

Premade programmatic elements have usually been 
very low-level for software development, like syncing 
an array of strings with a GUI table 
control.  This notion of them being extended
to the logic side is something different.

An important benefit for the software 
developer is that in a RAD (rapid application
development) environment the output 
is visible right there and can be modified.
It allows the software developer to inspect
what is happening at a slightly higher level.

Sample components that might be bundled
with this LLM-centric RAD editor:

- state machine / state machine manager
- value store / value observer

- REST request and response controller
--- subclass: AI chat API component

app feature kits: 
- scene tree
- timeline 

conventions
- dashboards
- admin panels

The less unnecessary micro-level work the AI
has to do, the better, and modular kits enable
this. At the same time, though 
if modules are too defined and narrow, 
they become problematic because they are 
inflexible and limited.  If a module is 
very low level, such as the object class, it 
will require more construction effort by
the AI agent, which is the issue we
are addressing.  The balance
can be genericity, where there are categories
of activities in software development
identified (e.g. the use of a state machine)
and the components facilitate common
scenarios such that it is about depth of 
customization by the AI agent, 
not full-time construction.

The test case might be: what would it take
to produce a versatile publication system
like WordPress?  What premade components, on
the programmatic side and the GUI side
would be provided to the AI?  Many relevant
components and kits that haven't existed before,
both because AI wasn't involved and
software engineers just didn't make them as
part of official programming libraries.

It would be the task of the AI to mix, connect,
configure, and sometimes customize these
modules.  Since they are at the code
level, they allow more granular control
than, say, a conventional patch-based 
programming system where the common
complaint is lack of control inside
the input-output box.  The AI agent can choose
to subclass or modify pre-made
components code when necessary while
they stay ready-made.

A calculator would be built with premade
logic components that accept OOP messaging
and then change the display.
When the LLM makes the calculator,
it might only require a few instances
of premade components on the logic, data storage,
and presentation sides.  These kinds of
components would certainly be different
in architecture or offer more specific
features for AI agent than what is
presently available.

It isn't that the LLM would never write
code, but it would write far less for the
larger level and thereby stay within 
schematics that prevent excessive code.
The code that it makes would be more
viewable in a schematics view as well.
The LLM can customize premade components
when necessary and work at a low level 
for features and needs specific to the app.
Meanwhile, at present the AI agent is
handing lines of code for everything,
from top to bottom.

Such a system would integrate more aspects,
such as a design style guide, so that
the LLM follows a framework.



