nct-gui-ThereIsNoSuchThingAsASkeuomorphicGUIDesign

All GUI Controls Are Already Skeuomorphs


- Speaking in terms of skeuomorphism,
which is the borrowing from the old 
and placing it inside the new referentially, that is
what all GUI controls are already, and always have
been-- which is taking references from physical 
machines and putting them into pixels,
and then using the mouse (or touchscreen)
to activate them.

- Sliders are the most clear example:
sliders come from physical machine
hardware, specifically mixer panels.  The "radio buttons"
on app forms were named after buttons on radios. 
Any toggle switch, whether on a touchscreen
or app, is borrowing from an actual toggle switch.

- There is confusion about what a software GUI 
actually is because a GUI historically has blended print design
(form checkboxes that only show up on
printed forms to be filled out) with machine controls
(sliders that appear on mixer panels) with
controls that don't have an exact reference,
such as dropdown menus.  In print design,
a page may have containers that don't have
outlines and just flat fills.

- But there is no such thing as a skeuomorphism
GUI because the whole of a GUI is to imitate
physical hardware controls on a pixel screen.
--- Interacting with a machine's screen can
exist differently, without skeuomorphism,
such as with the microfiche machines where
the hardware is physical.

- What people objected to were situations
where textures from the real world were
applied, but initially this wasn't possible
until the 2000s, when the average screen monitor 
became higher resolutions.

- Confusion comes about because early
GUI controls in the 1980s and 1990s had few pixels to work with
so there were just light hints of shading
and light, with there being little materiality
felt.

- Stripping away shading strips away
coherency, then, as.

An AI said, "'Flat design' didn’t remove skeuomorphism. 
It just changed which physical materials 
[were imitated], from brushed metal to [printed media.]"




