
a path of inquiry vs. not a path of inquiry


"Let me see if someone has done this."  "Has someone
wanted to do this?"
If it is an immediate pathway, the answer is often 
yes.  technological developments often
occur around the same time and why?
they are responses that arise from
from the same environmental conditions. people live amidst
the same components fused together in a specific
way for that point in time.  
then when the same immediate pathways are
in front of all people knowledgeable in that field, or
encountering the same issue if not in a field, then they
will come to the same kinds of conclusions.  
maybe it is not a frequently occurring goal among people, 
these are goals people form reactively outside of the stream
of a larger project or, if inside a larger project, 
on a minor set of tasks to serve it.  
for these goals arising out of conditions reactively, 
they are often occurring to other
people who face the same situation.  the need may confront
many people since they all live in the same conditions.
whether the need has come about for someone else ranges from guaranteed 
to a merely possibility.  Important to this: addressing that
need, and a solution that was formed reactively, 
may nevertheless be complex and involved even though many people
encountered it and also addressing it will invariably offer
different pathways inside it, a topic related to product development.

"Let me see if someone has done this."
"I wonder if someone has done this."
 Occasionally the answer is
no but often yes and sometimes it did but what came about is not adequate.
Even if the answer is yes and the solution has already been made,
the way you want to do it may be better or more specific.
"Oh, it looks like someone has done this." it may not matter.
"This is close or exactly what I was wanting/going to do."
"Oh, there are multiple people offering this."
"No one quite does it the way I want it." 


A Prolonged Path of Inquiry

Such conclusions often arise reactively from the person's
immediate conditions, life history, experience,
knowledge of a specific field, and time period,
but they have not come about through a prolonged path of inquiry,
trial-and-error.  They can be the start of an inquiry
A path of inquiry is not a prerequisite for everything
being meaningful, but a conclusion made reactively in
immediate conditions will often have peers right away
as people face the same needs and the same problems.  
Since other people can have those experiences or conditions 
as well or overlap, multiple people may have attempted to solve the
problem or offer the solution.  However, as we said, they
can do it in different ways with different objectives, style,
and outcomes.  Even in this category, working inside concepts coming from 
immediate conditions, there are still development required
while working on the concept.  

People face similar situations and conditions
in life, living in shared conditions, and can come to similar conclusions
but with different mindsets, knowledge, and experience.  
Also, the implementation of the concept, even though the people have
the same fundamental concept, is a different
process and matter than discussion.  

Product development

Having the concept alone
does not amount to a usable, effective, or pleasant 
device or tool.  Product development is a separate
activity and field that stems from the initial concept and
its winding road may take the person in unexpected directions
and objectives.  Working on the product can
lead to a different concept, improvements, additions,
and more. Having the initial commonly-arrived-at concept alone 
does not amount to a product that can be received
or is built sturdily.  Doing a product well connects
to the initial research stage but is not the same. 
Once the concept is enters the implementation stage, 
the implementation or start-up has its own twists, turns, and
possibilities, and within that there can be
many solutions for operations.  This results in the response:
"People have done this, but there aren't
any that are usable." Or "None of them have
a certain feature that is essential."
Speaking of this, there is the issue of the
person being particular that makes the effort nerdy: 
"None of them have the specific feature that I want to see for my
particular geeky desires and probably will only
ever matter to me and my narrow curiosity." This is different
than an experiment or an investigation.
Also: when a person does a thing for his own problem or interests
that applies to other people's conditions as well
but the person had no noble or lofty aspiration and
yet the project becomes widely used or popular, is merely a result
of people facing the same problems in the
same era.  He (or she) faced that problem, didn't
have any lofty goals in life, solved it for his own
interests, aligned those interests with other people's,
and worked on that, and thus it became widely used,
but it was not necessarily an adequate product
or solution.  It might just be junk but no one else
had had the opportunity to replace it.

outlier/rare/unprecdented: the same conditions, 


Several Evolutionary Steps In.

separate: developed concepts, a result
of investigation, theoretical efforts, 
or a prolonged path of inquiry with turns
questions, some with intermittent waiting periods.
application of theory to a situation. 
can require application of fields of knowledge
and research. investigating what other people did
not consider or recognizing and issue and
looking to why it is what it is.
after a while: several evolutionary steps in.
evolution of the concept based on trial and error
and ascertaining related truths of the
situation. the next stage results in
experience with the developed
concepts, developed principles that
apply in the future to this and other
situation, and experience with them
several steps in.

The issue of history informs theory and can
be a decisive factor.  All people work
on the web browser.  They work inside it.
Then there is the task of making a different
web browser or URL.






