INTERACTIVE APPLETS: MISSING FROM THE WEB PAGE


It should be possible to embed an interactive 
crowdfunding or fundraising widget inside a regular
Twitter/X or Facebook post.  This isn't possible 
because a basic user experience standard of the web 
is missing.

When there is no longer a formal, coherent system in place that 
promotes interactive multimedia, treating it as a 
separate topic (like Flash or Java applets), web developers,
social media companies, and ad agencies lack guidance and 
incentives to produce that type of Internet experience. 
It is more difficult for them to make those experiences
and impossible to upload them to social media, now the
predominant usage of the Internet.  They tend towards 
producing and encouraging audiovisual 
media for consumption. Although apps do provide interactive
opportunities, on the web this is no longer as simple to achieve.
An Internet user should be able to upload an interactive chart 
or an interactive animation to a Twitter/X or Facebook post.

We have come to use the web like on-demand television, applying 
this dynamic to news articles, videos, or podcasts, and so
the web evolved into a medium for consumption.  Because 
nothing came along to truly replace and supersede Adobe Flash 
and Java applets, we have a very static experience of the 
Internet outside of apps.  Along with the ejection of Adobe Flash
came the ejection of its tools and the ability to embed
something interactive in a web page in a straightforward way.

The web and the social web need to re-acquire interactive
capabilities that the user can make use of, once again.
The centerpiece of this re-acquisition of multimedia interactivity has to
be a designated file format, just like PDF.  PDF lets us exchange written 
documents easily, and Adobe Flash's file format unintentionally 
provided the same convenience for interactive multimedia documents, 
in the .SWF file format.  When ad agencies needed to upload something
interactive to the web, they just e-mailed a .SWF and it was
done.  The impact of Flash's removal from the web was huge inthis respect, 
as immediately advertising on websites no longer offered interactivity, 
there were fewer websites inclined to make interactive experiences for 
Internet audiences for commercial brands, and social media 
companies became entirely focused on supplying their users highly-refined, 
sugary stimulation.  Social media websites today restrict users 
from embedding custom HTML and executable files, preventing a 
more interactive state of the social web that is directed by the users.  
In fact, it is even impossible to customize the appearance of 
a Facebook profile or Twitter/X profile beyond a few 
minimal parameters that the companies allow, like
profile photo, bio, and header photo. 

An interactive multimedia type of file has to be readable and editable 
outside of the web browser, just like the video, still image,
are PDF files are.  But unfortunately, those who oversee web
standards always want to tie the computer's Internet software technology
to launching a web browser. As a result web browsers cannot even load a
common spreadsheet file or word processing document inside a web page.
In their view, an Excel document file format is owned by Microsoft so they
would be promoting a private company's own properties on the open
web.  What this means is that they are ideological to the extent that
it produces dysfunction: if you embed an Excel spreadsheet file
or Word document inside a web page no one can read it.
The people who oversee web standards are often very confused individual, 
pushing hard for open standards for the web browser even though
the market that is overwhelmingly dominated by one
or two private companies who fund and oversee the development of
those browsers. In that case there is no meaningful reason to
prevent people from embedding word processing documents in a web
page just because the file format is proprietary, as Google Chrome
is effectively a proprietary project.  Those who establish web standards are not necessarily
in sync with the needs of the public who use web browsers
and this is especially evident when they do not come capapble
of displaying the documents that the entire world relies for
business and other needs.  In the same way, they are not tending to the needs of 
interactive web and those solutions and tools were always provided by
a third party (Macromedia before it was purchased by Flash).
For the world to get what it needs it should recognize that it is
hindered by the "open" W3C that has no product accountability like
a private company does and so the quality of the standards
its produces are those of something basic.

There was a huge push to remove Adobe Flash and related
web plug-ins from the web but in fact without Adobe Flash
there wouldn't have been many developments like YouTube,
which originally served Flash video files (.FLV) inside
the YouTube player made out of a .SWF file.

Social media lacks interactive applets, which is what Flash 
provided.  There are unique outcomes that occur when interactive multimedia
is produced with a dedicated system like Flash or the rival
technology Microsoft Silverlight, and because they are
integrated they often go beyond what web developers are likely to 
do with open web technologies that are slow to arrive and
sit in fragments, mostly disorganized.



----

broadcasts encouraging consumption of those broadcasts, 
coralling users to follow them closely.  This means that people 
get addicted to consuming content rather than thinking and 
engaging with something interactive (clickable) that can
lead to different outcomes for each user, which is interactive 
multimedia.  The Internet user is encouraged to opine on things 
he or she is fed. Additionally, the public is not using computers to produce 
interactive content but shooting cheap videos all the time for clicks.



The Internet user should be able to upload an interactive chart or an 
interactive animation to a Twitter/X or Facebook post,
an option sitting next to the video file or still image option.
 
At the moment, Internet-connected computers across the 
world are being used to broadcast media one way just 
like television and radio-- with the interactivity provided
the the user being limited to choosing which media object to consume. 
One-way broadcast means that people get addicted to 
consuming content rather than thinking and engaging.




The web and the social web need to become interactive. 

At the moment, Internet-connected computers across the world 
are being used to broadcast/receive media in one direction just like television 
and radio-- with the interactivity amounting to choosing
which media object to consume.  Largely we use the web like 
on-demand television, applying this format to news articles, videos, 
or podcasts.  Because nothing came along to truly replace 
and supersede Adobe Flash and Java applets, we have a very static 
experience of the Internet and the potential of the CD-ROM
disappeared.  




Computers are interactive; this was the appeal originally. 
Now they broadcast media one way just like television 
and radio, with the interactivity being limited to choosing 
which media object to consume. The web and the social web need 
to become interactive. You should be able to upload an 
interactive chart or interactive animation to a Twitter/X 
or Facebook post.


Computers and web browsers are entirely capable of providing
a file format for uploading interactive geometry lessons
to a Twitter or Facebook post.

The animation tools Flash provided were important.
and much Internet culture from the 2000s disappeared.

You should be able to embed an interactive chart in a 
Twitter (X) post. Computers are interactive. So actually 
you should be able to embed a puzzle game that you made 
in a Twitter (X) or Facebook post. The social media web 
is pitiful because nothing came along and filled in the 
role of Adobe Flash or Java applets.

In other words, we need a new file format to serve the same 
purpose as the old Java applet so that people can upload 
executable files (games, charts, etc.) inside social media 
posts.  Consider this: you cannot upload an interactive 
widget for an all-or-nothing crowdfunding project inside 
a social media post, but you could embed a custom fundraising 
widget on a Myspace comment because that was the era of the 
web when Flash was still available and that website let you 
embed whatever HTML you wanted in the post.

You should be able to upload a puzzle game you found on 
the web inside a Twitter/X or Facebook post, just like a 
movie file, and let others play it.


If social media is where people converse and debate
why is it they cannot use their computers in a way
that makes sense?

How come no one can upload an interactive chart or other 
interactive applet inside a post? Only video files and still 
images are allowed on these social media websites!





THE WEB BROWSER HINDERING IMPLEMENTATION
OF APPS THAT ARE TRANSMITTED QUICKLY THROUGH THE WEB.


1) IT DOES NOT PROVIDE GUI CONVENIENCES
SIMILAR TO THE XUL LIBRARY, 

2) ITS NATIVE SCRIPTING LANGUAGE, JAVASCRIPT
IS CONTROVERSIAL FOR LACKING TYPED VARIABLES.

3) IT LACKS A COHESIVE SET OF LIBRARIES THAT
WOULD ENABLE AN APPLICATION

The combination of these factors has led to
the web acting as an information and communication
medium despite its potential to extend into 
flexible application software distribution.


THE WEB'S LACK OF STRUCTURE ON THE FRONT-END AND
BACK-END ENCOURAGES RELIANCE ON COMMERCIAL TOOLS

The web server carries nothing for managing
content, is totally basic until a third party
developer makes something for it and because
the task of installing and utilizing these products is
beyond the average user, many commercial entities
came in, both open and closed source.

Because the web server does not manage content
and never adopted any means of communicating
with other web servers natively (it communicates
with web clients, the browsers, exclusively
and not other types of servers), there is the
need to "crawl" the web.  In fact the servers
could provide indices of their content themselves
and send them to search engines on their own.
A search engine is not possible to build into
a web server the way it exists today because
a web server does not contain anything but
a way to transmit HTML files and other related
functionality.

The web browser does not recognize higher levels
of design templates and this leads to websites and
companies that exist as website builders, who
take care of the front-end task of designing
websites and also the back-end task of managing
any kind of posting of data from the web user.

It doesn't have to be this way if a web browser
and web server is redesigned in such a way
that both are filled out with more basic features,
coming packaged with customizable components
and widgets that regular web users could
put together on their own.





