

REPLACING THE VAGUE "OPEN FILE" FUNCTION OF A GUI OS
WITH TWO FUNCTIONS: "EDIT FILE" AND "VIEW FILE"

In actuality, there is a separation of viewer and editor usage
of files throughout the system but this has been reduced to the 
vague "open" function. In Noctivagous' OS, when a 
document is accessed on the file system through the file system navigator, the user does not just 
have the option to "open" it but decides whether to edit it or view it.
These are the most common cases. "Open" is considered too vague.  
A document is often either edited or viewed.  Sometimes there is 
overlap but on the file system in the navigator it would start 
with "edit" and "view" and then the right application would open it.
An image file being viewed would be opened by the general image viewer.
An image file being edited would be opened by the general image editor.


FILE SYSTEM ORGANIZATION

Noctivagous enables its own functionality in the file
navigator: Noctivagous allows users to group 
files in such a way that they stay inside the directory 
where they are; they are not grouped by placing them 
into another subdirectory which adds a node
to the file tree and requires more navigation work by
the user to find them.  In other words, if there are 10 files
(nodes) in that directory and four of them are made part of a group,
there would be shown a box outline around the four when the
directory contents is displayed.  This
adds directory-like organizing functionality without 
making another directory, which send the files down the node tree, 
something taxing for the user and detrimental towards
organizability of the OS.




PURPOSE IN THE metadata

When a file is saved, its "purpose" is
saved into the metadata.

Files and folders can have purpose classifier tags so that they
can be sorted easily in a file listing.  This is
another way of sorting files on the system

	purpose : scrapbook
	purpose : original media file for project
	purpose : book/article for reading (published)
	purpose : book/article for composition (owned by computer user)
	purpose : image clipping

A set of general purposes are provided by system,
but user can add others.

They can also have project names applied to them
so that files that are in different locations on
the file system can be found by the project name.


FILE SYSTEM .GLUE 

.GLUE aids in dependencies, making sure that files travel with
each other when they should.  They are locked together
in movement.

.glue describes two or more files being "glued"
together so they travel together always when being 
dragged or copied or removed.
doing anything involving copying, moving, or deleting is done on all, at the filesystem level.



SECURITY:

An app can only write to its own directory or directories (containers) 
tagged with its name. The navigated filesystem is then an 
artificial reorganization of the actual locations of files.



ORGANIZATION OF APP IN THE SYSTEM APP LAUNCHER

The applications would be organizable as more than 
just in folders or sitting in the apps directory.

Apps can have internal hyperlinks in this operating system. 
(e.g. Calculator/BasicCalculator accesses the 
Basic Calculator section)

The launcher is thus able to provide a more detailed
overview of apps and their functions, in a kind of tree
map. The user can access specific sections of the app
from the tree map app launcher.


APP ORGANIZATION.  Apps are used for different purposes
and will be sought out in different ways in the app list.
In this kind of list it is OK to place an app link in 
more than one place.  A few developer apps show up in
viewers, editors, and the "Developer" category.
The scanner app shows up in both.  

If the person is a designer, the design apps show up
both in "Editor" and in the standalone "Design" category.

When apps are made part of this system, they are asked
to declare their category and subcategory so that the 
system organizes them automatically.

Viewers

	Media Viewers
	
		Image viewer
		Video player
		Music player
		3D Scene viewer
			
	Document Viewers
		PDF reader
		E-book reader
		Comic Book Reader
	    CSV/XLS/Tabular Viewer

	Developer
		JSON Viewer
		XML Viewer

Editors

	Media Editors

		Photo editor
		Video editor
		Audio editor
    	Animation Editor
    
	Document Editors
	
		Word Processor
    	Spreadsheet Editor
	    Presentation Creator
    	Layout Designer
	    Markdown Editor


Multitool / Pocketknife (Pocketknife symbol)

	Calculator (App)
	
	    Basic Calculator
	    Scientific Calculator
    	Programmer Calculator
	
	Graphing Calculator (App)
	
	Calendar  (App)
	
	Clock (App)

		World Clock
		Alarm
		Timer
		Stopwatch

	Converter  (App)

		Unit Converter
		Currency Converter

	Dictionary  (App)
	
	Code Readers  (App)
		QR Code Reader
		Barcode Reader

	Weather
	
	Maps
	
	(Mobile) Compass
	
	(Mobile) Flashlight
	
	Voice Recorder
	
	Scanner
	
Notebooks and Memos

	Notes
	
	Reminders

	Scrapbook
	
	Journal

Control Centers

	Mobile Phone Controller

	Home Device Integration
	
	Video Camera Deck

Device

	Peripherals
	
		Printers
		Scanners
			Scanner (App)

	System Info
	
	

A desktop control center app for your phone should be a standard app
because there are so many notifications, settings, and
apps on the phone that would be easier configured on the desktop comptuer.  
In this app you should be able to customize the phone.
		