AI can write code, but the code it writes is
still in plain text.  So a fundamental problem
is not solved, that .TXT is not the right medium
for computer code anymore when computer graphics
are advanced and code documents can carry rich
layout.  .TXT does not allow for a schematics
or CAD view that is zoomable.



----

Plain Text: A File Format That Is Too Old
For Programming in The 2020s

http://noctivagous.github.io/


Modern software engineering regularly stretches
the plain text file format beyond a reasonable
range.  For fields like AI to advance properly,
computer code should be re-examined from a
graphic design perspective.  First, computer code's
file format should be regarded as antiquated
when computers carry far more sophisticated
interactive and graphics abilities compared to
the 1970s.  It was the limitations of
terminal display technologies that dictated
that code should exist as monospaced type.
Pushing programming past plain text (.TXT)
will provide the best foundation for the future
in all fields of software engineering.

To begin with, it should be self-evident that plain text
cannot neatly organize information inside
a provided viewport (a clipped rectangular
frame), nor can it provide interactive features
for navigating large volumes of code.
Plain text is hindering the programmer and
subconsciously the software engineering community
is trying to get away from its limitations by
pursuing various external add-ons.
Recent developments in code editor features
have sought to compensate for the deficiencies
of using plain text for computer code in the 2020s.
Nowhere is this the stated objective of the
companies who produce IDEs, but it is nevertheless
the phenomenon taking place.

A relevant example is Jupyter Notebook,
used by AI programmers everywhere. It is a
kind of programming system; it alternates
plain text Python programming instructions
with rich graphical output.  (It’s really that the
Python instructions should be upgraded in form too,
not just Python's output.) If it is so valuable
to have Python set inside an interactive environment,
then plain text has been negated.  A new system
should be constructed from the ground up that
acknowledges this.  At that point, Python will
obviously take on a different appearance, something
more interactive and graphical and become something else.
Jupyter Notebook is a custom use of Python
and it is, broadly speaking, hacking Python
into a state that it does not naturally allow.
Though this app suffices for the time being and
has helped to establish the contemporary field of AI,
Jupyter Notebook demonstrates that code
essentially exists in an inadequate condition overall
for modern computing (or else Python would be used
bare).  Additionally, there is
an unrecognized advantage to upgrading code
at the individual line, to include graphical controls
in this instructions. This will produce immense benefits.
At the code line (the input or instruction), any instructions
and parameters are actually condensable into a small,
graphical arrangement.  This will take some participation
from graphic design specialists.  For the first time,
diagrams can be the basis of writing
a program, recognized as the means of instructing a computer
beyond typed keywords.  Semiotical programming systems will
finally be able to emerge. There is something crude about
always typing out everything explicitly and graphics can
allow more implicit instructions through signs and symbols.

This may seem far away, but what it takes is
recognizing the existing patterns of software
features placed into modern IDEs-- what people want
(to get away from .TXT) versus what they believe they
are doing ("tweaks").  Jupyter Notebook is not alone
in this trend of enhancing plain text code, as all
mainstream IDEs today are undertaking compensatory measures
in some form, tacking on code completion boxes, code
folding controls, breakpoint controls, and image thumbnail scrollbars
to interact with the .TXT, to treat it as something
other than ASCII characters.  Veneers of all sorts have
been applied to plain text for programming.
All of this is unprecedented and did not exist in
the 2000s and earlier.

In other words, increasingly, modern code editors rely on
GUI additions to turn modern software development
into something palatable when size and complexity
have grown and .TXT is still the medium, when it cannot
adequately scale.  If the software engineering situation
has reached this stage, it is the file format that needs
to be transcended and a document file format is the next step.

Plain text carries major limitations when
code repositories become as large
as they are today, when storage and computing power
are exponentially larger than the 1980s and 1990s
and numerous collaborators push their changes remotely across
the Internet through a version control system.
What worked for simple times of the 1990s should
not suffice today: code bases are too large now. In
software engineering there are missing
conventions in code that are found in other areas
of engineering, such as zoomable schematics found
in CAD.  A modern code repository has no overview;
it offers no map or schematics to provide
the programmer a means of looking at the whole.
The only way to survey the contents of a code repository
is to inspect each file individually from the file system.
This cannot hold for the future and it isn't serving
the present well either.

For these sorts of features to exist,
the plain text file format must be viewed
as the principal throwback technology for code.
Enhancements provided by modern IDEs, like code-folding controls and
"minimap" thumbnails, should be regarded as
graphically-designed shims and a precursor to the
next stage, the document file format that naturally
lends itself to these features and supports
them in a proper way.  A document file format will
certainly allow for browsing code via schematics.

First, a new type of code should have its document
format based in XML,
which is more robust for this purpose than JSON.
Underneath what is rendered in the editor, that is,
the code exists as XML markup.  XML is very easily parsed,
and it can be rendered in any way desired. But importantly,
when code is parsed in real time,  systematically,
a program will possible to write and compile without
making any typographic errors, without accidentally referencing
variables or functions that do not exist before
compilation.  A stray keystroke will not break a program.
The system simply will not allow entering
a line of code (beyond a draft state) if it is
considered invalid for the program, because the IDE
will know everything about all of the code,
having parsed every line very well
in advance of any input entered.  Parsing plain text
for code is a convoluted and imprecise task whereas parsing
XML is straightforward.

Too often it is minor human error like making a typo
and then attempting to compile the program
that nickel-and-dimes the programmer and makes
programming a chore.  Increased parsability of
code will create advanced programming systems for sure
that eliminate this problem.
It will also allow different types of programming
languages to emerge, including those based in semiotics
rather than typewritten text.

What the computer industry should care about is future code,
then. Future code is the advancement beyond .TXT
for computer instructions, whether that is semiotical or
something else.  To start, future code should carry forward
in the direction of the now-essential
inline color picker, in which a color variable
can be assigned to an unobtrusive color picker control.
Though this is just a minor addition, it is a quite
impactful move, hinting at the future.
When this control is missing for the
software engineer who works with color variables regularly,
its absence is felt right away.
When more computer code has inline
controls in the same manner as inline color pickers,
code will begin its genuine advancement.  The most
natural way to support this type of code environment
is to base code in an XML or markup file format first.



NOCTIVAGOUS.GITHUB.IO