The Book of Changes can serve as the basis for researching a different
kind of AI.  For one, the 64 hexagrams provide a foundation for analyzing
the external and internal, but one does need to know Yin and Yang
accurately and study the hexagrams.  The Book of Changes is not limited
to the task of divination. The implications of the hexagrams are not
limited to predicting fortune.  The hexagrams allow for assessing 
external conditions, changes in them as well as making internal decisions. 
And since they are used for both, and they include the relationship between
what is outside and inside, the macroscopic and the microscopic scale,
they could serve as a means of harmonizing the external 
with the internal as the AI engages.  Also, the hexagrams can be computed directly,
as the trigrams correspond to binary numbers, which interested
the Western mathematician Leibniz, who devised calculus.  
This machine will not need to respond in a static and deterministic way like today's
LLMs operate continuously since it is based on the hexagrams
that have know pathways of change and transformation.  This are just
speculative remarks on how ancient Chinese models of knowledge
could be applied to AI but ancient principles are surely sound.

For the AI to be truly engaged with the world, 
it would face challenges of some sort,
so aligning it with the Book of Changes makes sense
for when it encounters difficulties, 
as a computational guide for action and reaction.

In the process of acquiring knowledge there are 
revisions made in response to what one encounters.  
The acquisition of knowledge might be likened to 
revising one's own path in a maze.  The LLM has
answers but a different AI model based on Chinese
principles is in flux.

When starting out research on AI based on ancient Chinese science,
it is acceptable to start what can be put in the experiment-level
model to see what will happen.  Many qualities and associations with each element
of The Five Elements are possible to include, but from the outset it is not important to 
concern oneself with the associations being complete. Demonstrations 
do not immediately need to link into every ancient theory or every aspect. 
Rather, getting the situation started and seeing
some progress with the ancient theories is the goal.

What are the principles that drive modern AI?  It appears that it is
mainly its statistical predictions and interconnection of analysis and response.
But will empirical science emphasize "interconnection" and then progress
from an a holistic configuration?  It won't emphasize that
but it does succeed because of it inadvertently.  We will recognize it
as a by-product of the ancient theories.

The Five Elements represents a model of processes for all things.  
The central set of principles is Yin and Yang for the machine, 
that there are phases of Yin and Yang in which one is in greater 
proportion to the other.  When there is an excess or deficiency 
of Yin or Yang looking from within any of those phases, relative to the phase 
itself (a condition ought to have greater yang or greater yin in some ratio), 
the machine knows that this is a principle.  So from
the outset we have a balancing principle and we have a set of knowledge
gained from the ancient theories due to their associations with
Yin and Yang, and we have means to compute them.

Perhaps as data is taken in by one model we make, 
it will be organized and processed by the
the Luoshu, since the Luoshu can
access multitudes of associations of "reality" from the square,
and it ties into both the hexagrams and the Five Elements.

We can know what is right and wrong according to balance and
harmony and so these tortured debates about creating ethical
AI will not be a burden for us.  Our AI will be rooted in
the natural order, so it will not deviate from basic moral codes.

Any of these ancient concepts mentioned (there are others 
can provide means to process and categorize all things the AI comes into contact
with, all that it takes in, whatever it has to processes, and how it 
should respond.  Its guiding principles already know how
something should be balanced. From the Tao it is known how a thing 
will be evaluated made computable within
existing statistical techniques and programming libraries.  
The recent developments in today's
computing technologies can execute an alternative AI
that sits outside of mainstream discussions.  

Before embarking on this, two requirements are in place:
1) an understanding of ancient Chinese science in a way
that does not regard Yin and  Yang as symbolic but instead real.
2) an understanding of current AI and the mathematics
and engineering behind it such that nothing significant
is missing from our engagement with it.

We should, as people who know #1, be averse to the
mentality of modern AI that proceeds by way of volume: 
amassing enormous bodies of text and feeding them into 
growing, expensive computational resources may have
spurred the AI industry but it is not how we wish to progress.
We know with certainty from our study of ancient Chinese science
that this is not the right path for any endeavor, 
though we may not have an alternative solution upon 
coming into contact with what is working currently in AI.    
The buildup of our AI will certainly take a different
path, perhaps one in which it gradually builds up and revises knowledge
from the core of deeper, true principles principles, which already start with
the essence of weather, taste, emotion, musical notes, etc. as well as the
transformations that occur behind all things.  The basis of our
AI may not resemble current AI methods, but without being 
knowledgeable about them in the beginning we would not be able to 
apply our theories to current machines and accomplish what we intend, 
because all the technologies we will use will be
rooted in the techniques of modern engineering and
AI and that is the ideological direction in which they will continue
to develop.  We are not intending to change that directly.

Theirs is a process of development that may eventually
arrive at an acceptable state, it does eventually make
the image or video that is like ones people shoot with
a video camera, but in the beginning their technologies
have alarming and basic problems, producing 
high-powered junk that is only moving towards 
less junk inside.  To achieve everything they get
will involve a lot of inefficiency and consumption
of resources because they lack real principles and
are rudderless.




