NOCTIVAGOUS

AI Facilitation of Work Vs. AI Takeover of Human Jobs

Discussing What Should Be the Philosophical Aim for AI Technology, Using The Example of a 
Vegetable-Cutting Kitchen Appliance Driven by AI


noctivagous.github.io

A vegetable-cutting appliance for the kitchen that will cut or dice any vegetable placed 
inside its box would be of immense value to the cook.  This type of device would have been 
challenging to construct before recent advances in AI, as the machine has to be able to 
recognize every type of vegetable placed inside it and, on its own, know how to peel or 
cut accurately with its cutting equipment. Many aspects of this are achievable in a
straightforward way by training a neural network. Whether it is the recognition of the 
vegetables or how they are to be cut, a neural network would be trained for the device 
to process all common fruits and vegetables.

We can use this hypothetical device to explain how technologists should view AI more often, 
which is to solve individual problems as they currently exist inside the activity rather 
than seek to overtake entirety of a human's role in a job (e.g. no more need to produce videos,
as the AI does it all).  A full-sized home cook robot won't be affordable to the 
average consumer for a long time and it will require lots of testing to consistently 
perform each cooking stage.   In the long term a humanoid is versatile, but a 
vegetable-cutting device is already known to be achievable as a consumer product and 
it would be utilizable by the public in some initial form in a few years on a scale 
similar to a microwave oven, cutting across all social strata.  Engineering specifics 
aren't needed immediately, but it could incorporate a tumbling mechanism, used 
currently by a certain industrial vegetable peeling machine.  The dimensions of this product would be 
close to a large microwave oven with a price that is affordable for the consumer.  
It would be usable by anyone interested for convenient, at-home cooking, including people 
who rarely cook today but might just want to put a chopped tomato on a salad or slice a 
potato to make some air-fried chips.  Unlike products that place AI in the kitchen for 
the heating stage of cooking, a category that is already quite satisfied without the 
inclusion of AI functionality, the purpose of this appliance is for a less glamorous stage 
of preparing food: the cutting, slicing, and peeling of vegetables.  It would be harder 
to put this appliance together to process every type of vegetable without making use 
of AI, unlike the cooking appliances that currently perform well for baking and cooking 
without it, as they don't need to know the exact form of the food placed inside the oven 
nor is the food coming into direct contact with mechanisms.

An appliance with this goal, once completed, would take the world by storm like the 
microwave oven, it would be driven by AI, but it would not be a robot doing everything to 
make a meal. It's a category of kitchen appliance that might seem arbitrary to those who 
are unfamiliar with home cooking. But many others, who cook regularly and also manage other 
responsibilities, know that cutting vegetables is frequently an involved process, even 
if the person has no objections to doing it as a chore.  Whatever is happening in life 
comes to an abrupt halt and becomes tedious vegetable peeling and cutting.  Nowadays, 
the food preparation stage is more in need of being addressed by a kitchen appliance than 
the heating stages of cooking, as air fryers and pressure cookers are now well-established 
and working well for anyone who uses them.  The microwave oven is now basically 
indispensable to modern life but it can be used much less if regular people can get 
cut peeled and vegetables on demand.

Addressing the issue of feasibility, this consumer device surely could be engineered to cut just 
about anything placed into it in a few minutes when there has been so much development 
for processing food in industrial settings. Our device would provide the convenience of 
a microwave oven but for the task cutting vegetables— put a vegetable or two inside and 
out comes a chopped, sliced, or diced result.  It would not necessarily focus on quantity 
to begin with but instead addressing the chore itself.  It isn't difficult to chop a bunch 
of celery.  But if it were possible to place the celery inside the appliance and wait a 
few minutes to have chopped pieces, this would be a big deal for home cooking and later
commercial restaurant scenarios.

When the vegetables are taken out of this AI-driven kitchen device they will be ready for 
cooking meals but also assembling cold dishes, such as fruit salads.  A potato placed 
inside can be chopped into the shape for fries, then placed into a nearby air fryer.  
The machine also cuts up the scraps and places them to the side of the cut vegetables 
for easy composting, and because of this the device does not need to dispose of anything 
through a plumbing attachment and it is self-contained.  It would just have a cleaning 
mode after being provided soap and water, also executed by AI.  All of this would be 
far-fetched in a time before recent advances in AI.  But a larger point is that the device 
does not attempt to take over the entire process of cooking, pushing the human out of the 
kitchen.  It instead directly addresses an issue that cooks encounter: vegetable cutting 
is the main obstacle to regular cooking at home, because even if people enjoy doing it or 
they don't mind the chore, it can become a hassle that cannot be easily overcome at all 
times. Professional chefs are no always working in the restaurant kitchen cutting vegetables, 
either, so of course this could reduce the time to prepare food in other industries.  
That very fact points to how valuable such a device would be across many environments.  
The extra work that vegetable cutting creates for cleanup often takes too much time for 
a home cook to balance other chores, but at times a bowl of two chopped tomatoes might 
be all that is needed.

Following the conventional approach for making a kitchen appliance that incorporates AI 
for cooking, it will be an expensive robot that has moving arms (moving around outside of 
a contained appliance box) and it will be able to cook on a typical stove what it cuts 
too, perhaps roaming around the stove and kitchen on a track. Apart from requiring far 
more engineering and AI technology than can be affordable for the average consumer today, 
this robot setup is unlikely to be manufactured for the consumer within a normal timeframe, 
and it will be an experimental product for a long time, limited to restaurants, some of 
whom might not even want such a robot until it is well-established.  The size of the 
device will be large, it will take up a lot of space, the assembly will likely require 
a professional's assistance, safety may be an issue with its large rotating parts and arms, 
and it will not necessarily fit in an average household kitchen.  This is not even
addressing the software side, which is that there isn't AI advanced enough at the current
time to drive an autonomous domestic robot for multiple tasks.

Will the humanoid move with a person when he changes living settings?  Will it fit in
the back of a car?  It may not be considered worth it by most homeowners for a long time, 
just to have an extra cook, because of all the downsides. Thus this second approach, 
this takeover of the whole process by making a partial humanoid that roams across 
the kitchen, takes a lot more development time and engineering resources and is an 
inferior way to utilize AI in a kitchen appliance for our times-- if we want AI to 
be of use to us in the near future for real life.  A chef robot would take a speculative 
research track, promising to change everything while always needing more time and money 
to be finished, with its success contingent on breakthroughs that are not guaranteed
to be timely or satisfactory.  It also stirs a person inside, as the entire cooking 
activity has been taken over completely-- supposedly for the purpose of making everyday 
life easier. Though it makes life easier in that way, it doesn't have to do that, as we 
just demonstrated, because only one part of the cooking process is currently causing 
significant obstacles for people at home.  The approach of what to use AI for matters: 
the chef robot may not solve problems for regular people whereas the vegetable-cutting 
appliance certainly will, today.

It is still not known yet how the public will receive the self-driving car, whether 
people will want this immediately, in a few years, or whether it will be avoided 
and result in the video of the scared person with his back against the back seat.  
Will people get used to this?  So much is unknown because so few people have tried this 
technology.  No one can quite say how a product that is so unusual like this will be received 
outside of the early adopters and enthusiasts and this is the most important part, 
that it requires investigation into audience reception and then revision in response to how 
people perceive it and what they want it for.  If it is just placed into the public
with the assumption people will want it, it is hard to say what will happen. 
The AI community can stray into areas where the technology does something very powerful, 
like generate an image from a text prompt, but in the situation the
technological gain isn't something the average person cares about for long because it stopped at 
the initial demo stage and user research and revision wasn't undertaken.

The goal of an AI device should not be to make life easy in itself, to replace an 
activity to the point that no human effort has to be expended but instead fix specific 
aspects of existing processes that carry complicated aspects, especially those that are 
causing problems because they are missing pieces to their puzzle.  When modernity 
developed it left gaps in certain areas of the chores that it made simple or convenient 
and so those valuable conveniences everyone enjoys can make the rest of the chore difficult 
and sometimes imbalanced.  For home cooking, it's the vegetable cutting stage that 
needs to be made a cinch and then everything else will fall into place.   precision and consistency that it can provide at this stage, reducing the fatigue impacting workers for the other stages.  Whatever the case, the AI community would start its road construction product by trying to do everything from start to finish, with a very large machine, and it would remove all workers from the situation as a goal.  This would be an open-ended research effort as well, like self-driving cars.  Instead, it is almost certain that many more workers could be kept while being provided one or more AI-driven machines that take care of the hassles of specific stages that are causing  unnecessary delays and wear on the workers.  This is the discussion of AI's complete takeover of an entire task versus AI's facilitation of certain stages of the work process. AI takeover is undesirable and is the mindset at AI companies, whereas AI facilitation is basically an absent topic of discussion. Devices made for AI facilitation can exist today, delivered on schedule like the vegetable-cutting machine that incorporates realistic engineering goals, whereas takeover AI, like self-driving cars, will always take a long time and it involves long-term issues of speculation of what people can achieve with the technology.  Self-driving cars were supposed to be driving many people around by now with AI (a regularly stated prediction around 2016), at least from the airport and back. Takeover AI machines make lots of promises that cannot be guaranteed to be fulfilled on time, because too much that is unknown is taken on by the engineering research and scope of the machine is too large. Though AGI (artificial general intelligence) is something some people want that supposedly would solve many issues mentioned, it is not available after all and experts vary in their predictions on when it would appear. That is what should be the topic of discussion, that researchers should aim for AI-driven products that address what people need today, not what supposedly futuristic world they wish existed through open-ended, science fiction research goals.

To all commuters, road construction takes a frustratingly long period of time, but if AI 
is supposed to be the means to do it all at once in a single machine we may find ourselves 
in the same situation as self-driving cars, which still bring with them a lot of unsolved 
problems and remaining ethical concerns.  No one should shy away from what matters in the 
short-term, in other words, and this is a more responsible use of investment money anyway.  
This can benefit humanity more today compared to those oversized undertakings that are so
speculative.  It would  be beneficial right now to produce devices that assist road 
construction for individual problems that make the work take too much time.

In the case of the vegetable-cutting appliance that can sit next to the microwave oven, 
the barrier to AI providing something helpful is extremely low compared to what is 
extremely high: a big, expensive robot requiring complicated assembly screwed into the 
wall or placed on a track that roams across the kitchen. It doesn't demand that scientific
breakthrough occur at some unknown point in the future, the development of a full AGI
that can drive a domestic humanoid safely and autonomously. The purpose of AI has not been 
confined by the single purpose of a vegetable-cutting device but rather directed into a 
more rational objective, to deal with what has been identified as inadequate for people's 
process in life, as it is lived today. This is an AI philosophy that does not aim do it 
all for people, such as to write the entire paper, to make the entire illustration for 
them, to prepare and cook the entire meal for them from a predefined setting, to make 
every aspect of the entire road work, to drive the car from point A to B without a person 
touching the steering wheel.  The consequence is that the outcome will be higher quality, 
feasible, and controllable right now.

This involves going through the effort to identify what is missing first, though.  As we 
said, when conveniences came along for home cooking, they left a gap at the stage of 
vegetable cutting.  Thus the researchers will have to do more than set out to work on 
technology side and they have to investigate.  What is the obstacle in a given activity, 
such as how the task of home cooking is psychologically and practically hindered by the 
friction of having to peel and cut vegetables and then clean up the scraps afterwards? 
What is really holding people back in any given workplace? By comparison, the current 
long-term aspirations of popular AI enthusiasts are limited, as they aren't willing to examine 
what is wrong in any given situation, just make a one-size-fits-all AI mega-machine 
that takes it all over and has been trained on everything people do.  What follows is a 
job that is commonly too big for AI engineering, which is a machine that has to do everything 
for something and also needs more advanced physical engineering to match the AI software. 
The key topic is speculation and gambling as to whether the necessary breakthroughs will
occur and if some do they will be adequate, in time, and affordable for production. 
When it is recognized that achieving these types of AI projects is too big of a job, 
then it becomes a matter of speculation, that there will be AGI (artificial general 
intelligence) that will server as a kind of panacea for all of the domestic life issues 
people have, which is not a certainty.  Instead what might occur is something uncomfortable 
and domineering, carrying with it many negatives, something inescapable and harmful to 
people.  People might find themselves more unhappy, in other words, when the chef robot 
finally exists.  They are likely to encounter undesirable side effects when there is an 
AI machine that makes the entire road.

Of course in theory a versatile, personal domestic robot would take care of everything 
from house cleaning to cooking would be valuable because of how complex life can be, 
but in practice, given the actual state of science and technology today, that will be 
expensive for a long time and will not appear as a finished consumer product for many 
years to come.  Because while it may be possible to simulate these tasks in software, 
it may not be easy to translate to robot hardware.  So the first goal is to recognize 
that there exists this excessive optimism in the tech industry which can never deliver 
such products like self-driving cars on time (is that a worthwhile goal in the first 
place?) and admit that for AI to truly serve people it has to be applied to existing 
situations such that it lubricates the gears of life, not takes by force entire jobs 
of everyday life. If something helpful makes people uncomfortable, it is following the 
wrong track and its end point will make people unhappy.

Had ChatGPT existed for one purpose, to write code, and OpenAI centered its efforts around 
that, it would have made a complete product, which would do the job much better than today.  
It would push AI to develop on the code editor side that presents the code, even placed in
the compiler.  Though ChatGPT (GPT4 currently) is remarkable in how it is able to write 
code, and the quality is frequently high, there are often errors anyway. When the 
devices are too broad in purpose there results a lack of goal clarity, for something 
like ChatGPT, because it takes a lot of effort to figure out how to use it for everyday life, 
even though it can do a lot and is very useful for many tasks.  It then puts someone in 
a confused state as to how to use this extremely useful machine that doesn’t have a 
stated purpose.  Usually something like ChatGPT would be shipped as a developed media editor 
software application, with many tools, categories of use, and menus, so that there is some 
kind of guidance on how to use it beyond typing everything out inside a box.  
Because that isn't present, OpenAI has struggled to cross over into the mainstream with 
its AI product.  

On the surface ChatGPT would exist to write papers for people from start to finish so 
that they don't have to do anything, or write entire computer programs for them from 
start to finish that compile. That is at first glance what its purpose would be for 
many chores.  What is ChatGPT for though? "Whatever you want it to be." Lots of things 
like that, with some major exceptions added to the discussion.  When there is no order 
in the situation and it is an anything machine, the utility of the machine is reduced 
to a population of those who are willing to come up with ways to use it all the time.  
It takes a lot of work to use ChatGPT sometimes, even though the output can be of value.  
People are not really discussing this.  The author is often of the view that he can get 
ChatGPT to do things in spite of the organization that made it because this is not a 
finished product.  From the technological side this is partly the case as well, as 
there is the concept in AI research of "emergent capabilities" of a large language model, 
that many capabilities of the AI were unexpected and not predicted by the research 
organizations like OpenAI as they went about training neural networks.  Their internal 
workings are sometimes inscrutable too, with the concept of "interpretability" in 
AI research being a topic of concern of how the AI actually arrived at its conclusions.  
These subjects remind a person of how sometimes technology companies gloss over what 
should be in the foreground, such as how VR devices usually cause discomfort after 15 
to 30 minutes.  Instead, there is basically no discussion of that by VR companies, 
as if ignoring it in public will make it less problematic for the technology to be of value.

AI can write code well because it comes from the same thing, computer code itself.  
It will be a long time before code is directly compiled into finished programs from AI 
without error, and in the first place it would then be a new culture of AI-directed app 
programming (much like how it is today on a small level) instead of truly replacing regular 
programming.  To replace regular programming with something new takes much more than 
having the AI make chunks of computer code; it requires revising what programming is 
and modernizing its form.  That is the issue which is this is a matter of product and 
not just engineering.  The AI companies say that the GPT is a tool for all kinds of 
tasks, as long as you can figure out what they are and how to get it to do them. 
That doesn't sound so great when re-examined, but we can use the AI they have 
made nevertheless, of course. An LLM certainly can serve quite capably and much of 
the output is remarkable, but that wasn't really how the ChatGPT was set up, so there 
is a misalignment of stated product goals and the form that the product takes, which is 
open-ended and places the burden of using it on the consumer.  The consumer should know 
what the product is for.

In technology there is the crucial objective of achieving sensible, beneficial, and 
intended gains, which are a result of a well-designed and proper course of research, 
planning, and investment that is aware of what regular people need. These types of 
products make a useful impact on people's lives and so they catch on, such as the 
microwave oven or perhaps the touchscreen smartphone. Actual problems that people face 
are being addressed by them and genuinely useful benefits are provided to the consumer. 
This is in contrast to enterprises and technologies that end up providing incidental and 
accidental gains, such as today's VR, as they didn't bother to examine what people want 
to make life better. VR was predicted by many to take over the computing environment, 
to be the replacement for everything eventually, but it never attempted to do anything 
that people do with computers today, like edit 2D videos or 2D photos.  It was going to
break off into the future and drag everyone into it and ignore what people are doing
every day.  VR didn't actually have technical conditions to take anything over that people
do on the desktop computer and what it ended up doing was providing an alternative device 
for immersive entertainment that can be worn for 30 minutes just before discomfort 
sets in. Along the way it found some side use cases, like training employees, which is 
the incidental and accidental part. When product failures like this occur it is often a 
result of ingrained complacency stemming from a false concept that there is such as 
thing as technologies that don't need to be closely shaped and directed towards 
benefitting everyday life in a useful way, a kind of "hands off" or free market type 
of mentality that is actually rooted in laziness, one that will let everything unfold 
without proactive participation on the part of the organization as long as the 
fundamental engineering is there. It's a common character flaw found in Silicon Valley 
in particular, which expects everything to be a success once the hard engineering has 
been completed.  The thinking goes that OpenAI will be fine because it has 
the advanced engineering behind the models that drive AI and it doesn't need to make any 
finished or developed product on its own because surely others will do this with what 
they make. It remains to be seen if that will occur.










