MEASURING THE UTILITY AND COMPLETENESSOF A PRODUCT: The iPod Test - Will You Use It Regularly?

noctivagous.github.io

Noctivagous' concept, "The iPod Test" is the requirement that a
a consumer product is measured by the following questions.
It represents the reception of a product by the consumer.

-- Do you want to use it regularly because you find it helpful?  
-- How does it help you? 
-- Does it eventually become something of great value to you?

The iPod is singled out because before it was launched it
was discussed by executives in terms of "we each wanted one
for ourselves."  However, deeper questions have to be asked
than that because that doesn't explain why the product worked
for consumers at the time.

The electric pressure cooker passes The iPod Test (the questions above)
and the air fryer does so as well because of the cooking
conveniences the two appliances provide.  All people
who purchase these products recognize their value for the 
kitchen as long as they are people who cook, and there is basically 
no disagreement about that; it is a given.  So, another requirement 
is that, when received, the public unanimously considers the device to
be of value.  There is never any skepticism from anyone who is
relevant to the demographic, but when the Apple Watch is brought up people 
would be target consumers sometimes ask openly what the value is.
The Apple Watch doesn't help anyone with anything from the outset; it is
a computer inserted into the form of a timepiece for the wrist, then
the purpose was backwards formed from there.  This is why it does not
pass the test.

To avoid this, the product manufacturer has to carry the objective of 
helping people with the product from the outset.  If the intention is to 
help people just to get something for the company (sales), the product 
will not meet The iPod Test and it will deviate like the Apple Watch.

Here is the test asked on the iPod itself.

"In the 2000s, how does the iPod help a person compared
to the current music player situation, and what value does it provided him or her?"
	- In the 2000s, the only way to play 
	albums of music is by carrying around
	many CDs placing one or more into a CD player, either
	portable or stationary, and they take up a relatively large amount
	of space. The iPod makes it possible to carry around
	hundreds of albums in the person's pocket through electronic technology. 
	As a result, the person does not need to worry about keep track a binder
	of CDs.  The storage of albums is fused into the player as well.
	
What is important to note is that there are many products
that incidentally or accidentally feature a helpful aspect
and have become popular over time, but they are not in the same category
as these, which have unanimous understanding of their value.  
At the same time, what may not be recognized by a company behind products
with partial utility is what truly draws users to the product
even thought it is successful financially--  meaning that the founders
don't truly understand what is making their company successful and
why people use the product they work on.  
And as long as they do not remove the inadvertent aspects that are 
essential to people using such a product or service, they will continue 
to succeed financially, but this is not the same as passing The iPod Test.  
So, the product may not be pleasant to use overall, it may have many 
useless gimmicks, but it will nevertheless carry with it a helpful aspect 
that makes people use it or become dependent on it, and the founders may 
not have realized that helpful aspect is all that matters. 
Unlike the devices that are designed to be helpful from the start, it is
a mixed bag.

The people who build a software product are engaged in writing a thing 
in software and so something came out of it, but not necessarily something 
good look at the situation as a whole. 
The most prominent example of this is social media,
where the early histories of these websites started with something
trivial, something other than how people find it helpful.
In reality, social media is popular because it helps users 
track people they know, contact people they don't know, 
amass an audience of strangers, express their opinions to their audience and
inform their audiences of what they are doing. None of this was
a direct and stated founding objective of the founders of any of the most
popular social media companies in the earliest days when they began.
Not one had proper intentions from the start and had instead
accidental success in that these use cases of their websites were
not their goals. Going back to the earliest social media websites,
the people involved were not trying to do anything for anyone at 
the outset, they were not intending to provide a product to 
solve a problem.  Instead, a novelty they made for a leisurely
purpose caught on. 

An iPod is trying to help the person carry around music in a portable 
and convenient way and that was the goal.  For the social media websites, 
the helpful aspects became apparent shortly after the websites were built and 
took off in a rapid way, and they were set up with different intentions.  
Thus, a crucial aspect of moving from the present warped and confused 
technology industry into the future is the recognition that many 
business successes result from incidental features that were not part 
of a proper product or service plan.  They do not pass the iPod test,
which ensures that a technology product is solid and complete,
like the iPhone or iPad or the all-or-nothing crowdfunding industry.

To pass The iPod Test, a product's general usage by the consumer
has to be predicted ahead of time at the outset of the product's inception.  
There shouldn't be any surprises to the founders that something
succeeds. Of course, it is sometimes interesting when consumers branch
out into unusual or unexpected uses of a product, but this is seen as
unnecessary to products that pass The iPod Test.  

What is important is that the main thesis of a product is validated 
by its reception.  A product has to have a thesis at the outset,
what its goal is for people who engage with it or use it.
Social media did not ever have a thesis (why and how people would
use it in general) whereas all-or-nothing crowdfunding did.  
Because social media did not, the public latched onto the useful 
aspects that were there incidentally while getting hurt by the 
whole of the websites and their tendency
to replace product purpose with encouragements base social habits in people
to generate profit and usage.

The uses of all-or-nothing crowdfunding were all predicted
in advance and example use cases were provided to the
consumers that would guide them into use cases
that they would actually find helpful for their goals. 

