How The VR Community Can Respond to the Apple Vision Pro



This article was written by John Pratt, an early founder of the all-or-nothing crowdfunding industry and a co-founder of the website Fundable (2005-2009).  Fundable is the place where “crowdfunding” was coined by Michael Sullivan in 2006 for his Fundavlog hobby project.   Kickstarter and IndieGoGo adopted the conventions put forward by the first Fundable website and the all-or-nothing crowdfunding industry exists today because of it.  When Kickstarter launched it copied many aspects of the first Fundable website.


VIDEO GAMES AND IMMERSIVE EXPERIENCES SHOULD NOT BE THE FOCUS OF THE VR COMMUNITY

In 2012, the Oculus Rift succeeded in fundraising on Kickstarter for its breakthrough VR product by appealing to gamers. The dream of the project was to utilize VR for experiencing video games as if living inside them instead of on flat television screens.  This seemed like a successful approach for selling a new type of VR headset because an audience of video gamers would serve as a large group of early adopters; they would adopt a new technology like VR right away, before everyone else, which would then provide conditions for VR to succeed elsewhere in other applications.  What is important to note, though, is that video games and entertainment is just one direction a company could take VR; VR is simply a technological medium.  For example, if VR is packaged to act as a replacement for a desktop computer foremost, it could be called spatial computing (and it would be more accurately called “spatial personal computing”).

Now the future of VR requires that the industry abandon Oculus’ gamer mindset and realize that for VR to exist as more than a money pit for investors and big companies, the concept of utility and serving the needs of real life has to come first and it has to be the primary objective.  Increasingly, the world is coming to understand that entertainment cannot provide the gateway for VR’s success and that is the reaction reviewers and consumers are having after trying the Apple Vision Pro.  The industry must begin to establish its own APIs for XR apps that can provide consumers utility in everyday real life.  Regardless of whether enthusiasts in the VR community want to hear it, amazing experiences do not sell new device categories like VR and then bring them into feature completion because over time the excitement for the technology fades.  Then there is no actual pathway from a video game to a utility app.  That is especially true when the APIs do not exist for one and rely entirely on video game engines like Unity and Unreal.  There is no exception to this in technology history about utility coming first— the Macintosh was released for home office use and then video games appeared on the side.  Steve Jobs himself took video games to be a secondary industry for Apple products.  Entertainment has to be the side activity for selling a new product category because, just like the Facebook poke, the gimmicks and tricks of any new tech will lose their appeal and what is left, always, is what people need from it for day to day usage (which is, in the case of Facebook, keeping track of contacts and staying up to date).  Since mainstream VR does not satisfy this need people have, it breaks the hidden laws of technology adoption— it struggles and fails by insisting that entertainment is a possible vehicle for its mainstream success, that it could crossover to consumers by providing amazing experiences.  To convince itself it is doing well in the topic of utility it cites minor instances where someone used it for product design, employee training or therapy, which are side use cases and mostly uncommon.  At the moment, the APIs are not there for regular VR to provide developers tools for normal apps, an oversight that needs to be corrected by Meta, the main player in this category. 



There is no need to predict the future for Apple’s spatial computing product, as to how it will fare.  Instead, there is a need to examine what needs to happen right now for VR and spatial computing to succeed.  Regardless of how Apple does with the Apple Vision Pro, as we will talk about later, what really has to happen is a conversion of the WorldWideWeb (the web) to VR/ spatial computing in a format that makes use of the added capabilities of VR— turning all web pages into dioramas and making all corporate websites capable of providing a fun, 3D experience just through HTML and JS.  Just like how the web was adapted to mobile phones, VR now has to adapt the web to its own medium, to make use of the benefits of 3D for a web page.  The so-called “killer app” for VR is actually the conversion of a web page to a more dioramic format for VR, like pop-up books, so that online stores can display their products in 3D and websites display meaningful differences in VR from their mobile counterparts that bring people into the headset all the time.  The term “killer app” is an outdated term anyway, and comes from the 1980s, a time when the personal computer struggled to find its purpose in mainstream society.  In the present day, consumers come to the computer with a variety of needs and there is no specific software application that will bring them into VR.  But everyone uses the web, and this is the unifying “app” people seek.  If the web looks the same in VR as on the desktop computer or mobile device, a flat page floating in space, what is the point of interacting with it in VR?





DESKTOP PARITY: MATCHING A DESKTOP COMPUTER’S VALUE AND UTILITY


It is not true that Apple has already won the VR battle with the Apple Vision Pro though.  The outcome of that is contingent on the mindset of the VR community changing, finally moving away from prioritizing video games and entertainment and looking for ways to bring the web into 3D, then make apps that work for VR, with functionality equivalent to desktop, but providing capabilities that are superior to other technological platforms.  The goal should be desktop parity- making the latest technology, VR, as capable as the feature-complete desktop computers.  Desktop computers are feature-complete, but can you edit a 2D photo in a VR app in a way that is the same and better than desktop?  If not, why not stay on a desktop computer?  Can you open a 2D photo-editing app in VR and then switch back and forth between navigating the filesystem in a smooth way?  Catching up with Apple requires taking a hard look at these topics, these overlooked needs, and letting go of ego: continuous playtime is over and it is time to ask how VR can be reworked for serious usage by the public for everything a desktop computer does.  Incidental use cases, like employee training or therapy, cannot be cited as evidence that VR is working for society.  It has to be that whatever is done on the desktop computer can be done in VR, in a better way, providing powerful capabilities the desktop computer doesn’t give the user.  If editing a 2D video is done in VR, it has to be a superior experience to how it is done on the desktop.  It cannot be a flat window floating in space that is the video editor exactly as it exists on the PC.  And the VR headset cannot make a person feel discomfort.

As it happens, Windows has a touch API for Windows tablets for making touch apps, but a new API could exist on top of this type of API for VR apps.  If the VR community were to adopt an API like this, it would be able to sit next to Apple with a collection of apps that are not games.


THE TOP PRIORITY OF THE VR COMMUNITY SHOULD BE DEVELOPING THE 3D WEB

The Apple Vision Pro’s Safari app supports the <model> tag, allowing embedding models on standard web pages, and it also supports direct linking to .USDZ files through <a>.   However, much more needs to be done to convert web browsers for VR, to make them fit this platform and not just a 1:1 translation from mobile.

It was the Internet that moved the world's population onto personal computers in the late 1990s and 2000s and made the personal computer fully mainstream, starting with online services and then the web.  In the late 2000s, mobile web page conventions appeared to make it possible for touchscreen devices to adapt to the web, providing essential differences in user interaction for web pages.  Accordingly, in VR, online stores should be able to provide 3D models of products on a different type of web page.  Their products could protrude from the page before being taken out by the user for examination.  

Following the change that occurred for mobile, a web page should have its format adapted to the hardware format, VR/spatial computing.  In VR, a website can feature parts that pop up or fold out like pop-up books, creating a three-dimensional scene or arrangement for each (HTML) page.  New web page conventions should be established for this.  

A web page would no longer be confined to a flat paper page but would be able to take on a diorama format, with many 3D elements and objects stationary in front of the VR user, still inclusive of text paragraphs and navigation found on web pages today.

See animations on this page as an example of how existing pages can be converted today already with a temporary quick fix in CSS: https://github.com/magicleap/detached_explainer).





